<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="cpinfofiles">
    <title><ph conkeyref="HOS-conrefs/product-title"/>Configuration Processor Information Files</title>
    <body>
        <p conkeyref="HOS-conrefs/applies-to"/>
        


    <p>In addition to producing all of the data needed to deploy and configure the cloud, the
        configuration processor also creates a number of information files that provide details of
        the resulting configuration.</p>
    <p>These files can be found in <codeph>~/helion/my_cloud/info</codeph> after the first
        configuration processor run. This directory is also rebuilt each time the Configuration
        Processor is run.</p>
    <p>Most of the files are in YAML format, allowing them to be used in further automation tasks
        if required.</p>
    <table frame="all" rowsep="1" colsep="1" id="table">
        <tgroup cols="2">
            <colspec colnum="1" colname="col1"/>
            <colspec colnum="2" colname="col2"/>
            <thead>
                <row>
                    <entry>File</entry>
                    <entry>Provides details of</entry>
                </row>
            </thead>
            <tbody>
                <row>
                    <entry>address_info.yml </entry>
                    <entry>IP address assignments on each network</entry>
                </row>
                <row>
                    <entry>net_info.yml </entry>
                    <entry>IP addresses assigned to services. For example, this provides the data needed
                        to complete the configuration of VSA clusters.</entry>
                </row>
                <row>
                    <entry>server_info.yml</entry>
                    <entry>How servers have been allocated, including their network configuration. Allows
                        details of a server to be found from its ID</entry>
                </row>
                <row>
                    <entry>firewall_info.yml </entry>
                    <entry>All ports that are open on each network by the firewall configuration. Can be
                        used if you want to configure an additional firewall in front of the API network,
                        for example.</entry>
                </row>
                <row>
                    <entry>route_info.yml </entry>
                    <entry>Routes that need to be configured between networks. </entry>
                </row>
                <row>
                    <entry>service_info.yml</entry>
                    <entry>Details of where components of each service are deployed</entry>
                </row>
                <row>
                    <entry>CloudDiagram.txt</entry>
                    <entry>A pictorial representation of the cloud</entry>
                </row>
                <row>
                    <entry>explain.txt </entry>
                    <entry>An explanation of the decisions the configuration processor has made when
                        allocating servers and networks</entry>
                </row>
            </tbody>
        </tgroup>
    </table>
    <p>The following examples are taken from the <codeph>entry-scale-kvm-vsa</codeph> example:</p>

    </body>
</topic>

