<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="EMC_overview">
  <title>Integrating with EMC VNX Storage</title>
  <body>
    <p>Integrating EMC VNX 5300 unified hybrid storage arrays with Helion OpenStack allows you to consolidate multiple workloads and better manage unpredictable IT environments. EMC provides flash, capacity, and application-aware software. EMC's VNX hardware solutions provide a choice of systems ranging from entry-level solutions to high-performance, petabyte-capacity configurations servicing demanding application requirements.</p>
    
    <p>If you already have EMC deployed in your environment and want to integrate it with Helion
      OpenStack, you can use this document to understand how Helion testers have successfully
      completed the process. The process involves meeting all of the hardware and network
      requirements, installing and configuring the EMC drivers on all controller and compute nodes.
      Additionally, this topic provides sample test scenarios that have been used to verify
      integration with Helion OpenStack.</p>
      
      <p>The following operations supported by EMC VNX 5300 were confirmed to also be supported by
      Helion OpenStack.</p>
    
    
    
    
    <p>The following table identifies the specific operations that were tested and verified to be supported with Cinder API version 1.1.13.</p>
    <table frame="all" rowsep="1" colsep="1" id="table_TinT_suppOps">
      <tgroup cols="2">
        <colspec colname="c1" colnum="1" colwidth="1*"/>
        <colspec colname="c2" colnum="2" colwidth="1.31*"/>
        <colspec colname="c3" colnum="3" colwidth="2.17*"/>
        <colspec colname="c4" colnum="4" colwidth="1.49*"/>
        <thead>
          <row>
            <entry>Volumes</entry>
            <entry>Snapshots</entry>
            <entry>Migration</entry>
            <entry>Consistency Groups</entry>
          </row>
        </thead>
        <tbody>
          <row>
            <entry>Create volume</entry>
            <entry>Create volume snapshot</entry>
            <entry>Migration between two backends with volume type "none"</entry>
            <entry>Create consistency groups</entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry>Delete volume</entry>
            <entry>List volume snapshot</entry>
            <entry>Migration between two backends with different volume types (including Storagetype
              Thin to Thick)</entry>
            <entry>Delete consistency groups</entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry>Attach volume</entry>
            <entry>Delete volume snapshot</entry>
            <entry>Migration between two backends with different volume types (including Storagetype
              Thick to Thin)</entry>
            <entry/>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry>Detach volume</entry>
            <entry>Create a volume from a snapshot</entry>
            <entry>Migration between same backends with different volume types (including
              Storagetype Thick &amp; Thick)</entry>
            <entry/>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry>Clone a volume</entry>
            <entry>Create consistency group snapshot</entry>
            <entry/>
            <entry/>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry>Extend a volume</entry>
            <entry>Delete consistency group snapshot</entry>
            <entry/>
            <entry/>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry>Transfer volume between tenants</entry>
            <entry/>
            <entry/>
            <entry/>
          </row>
        </tbody>
      </tgroup>
    </table>
    

    <note type="note">The Cinder supported operations are listed in the <xref href="https://wiki.openstack.org/wiki/CinderSupportMatrix" scope="external" format="html">Cinder Support Matrix</xref></note>
    
    <p>To integrate the EMC VNX 5300 storage with Helion OpenStack:</p>
    <ol>
      <li><xref href="EMC_preinstall.dita">Meet all pre-installation requirements</xref></li> 
      <li><xref href="EMC_install.dita">Install Drivers</xref></li>
<li><xref href="EMC_verify.dita">Verify EMC Integration</xref></li></ol>
 </body>
</topic>
