<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd" >
<topic xml:lang="en-us" id="configure_monitoring">
  <title><ph conkeyref="HOS-conrefs/product-title"/>Configuring the Monitoring Service</title>
  <body>
    <p conkeyref="HOS-conrefs/applies-to"/>
    <section id="config">
      <p>In <keyword keyref="kw-hos-phrase"/> you have the option to specify a SMTP server for email
        notifications and a database platform you want to use for the metrics database. These steps
        will assist in this process.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="email"><title>Specifying a SMTP Server for Email Notifications</title>
      <p>In order for the monitoring service to be able to send email notifications about alarms, it
        needs to be configured with an email server. The email server is not provided by <keyword
          keyref="kw-hos"/>, but must be specified in the configuration file described below. The
        email server must support SMTP.</p>
      <p>You can specify your SMTP server either during the installation phase of your cloud
        deployment or post-installation if need be. We will show both methods below.</p>
      <p><b>During Initial Installation</b></p>
      <p>To configure the SMTP server, edit the
          <codeph>~/helion/my_cloud/definition/cloudConfig.yml</codeph> file during installation.
        There should be a section at the bottom for <codeph>smtp-settings</codeph> that looks like
        this below. If it doesn't exist, you can add it:</p>
      <codeblock>smtp-settings:
  #  server: mailserver.examplecloud.com
  #  port: 25
  #  timeout: 15
  # These are only needed if your server requires authentication
  #  user:
  #  password:</codeblock>
      <p>This table explains each of these values: <table frame="all" rowsep="1" colsep="1"
          id="smtp_settings">
          <tgroup cols="2">
            <colspec colname="c1" colnum="1" colwidth="1.0*"/>
            <colspec colname="c2" colnum="2" colwidth="1.0*"/>
            <thead>
              <row>
                <entry>Value</entry>
                <entry>Description</entry>
              </row>
            </thead>
            <tbody>
              <row>
                <entry>Server (required)</entry>
                <entry>The server entry must be uncommented and set to a valid hostname or IP
                  Address.</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry>Port (optional)</entry>
                <entry>If your SMTP server is running on a port other than the standard 25, then
                  uncomment the port line and set it your port.</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry>Timeout (optional)</entry>
                <entry>If your email server is heavily loaded, the timeout parameter can be
                  uncommented and set to a larger value. 15 seconds is the default.</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry>User / Password (optional)</entry>
                <entry>If your SMTP server requires authentication, then you can configure user and
                  password. Use double quotes around the password to avoid issues with special
                  characters.</entry>
              </row>
            </tbody>
          </tgroup>
        </table>
      </p>
      <p>Then you will continue on with your installation steps.</p>
      <p><b>After Initial Installation</b></p>
      <p>If you need to configure a SMTP server or make changes to your existing SMTP server after
        your initial installation, these steps will show you how:</p>
      <ol>
        <li>Log in to the lifecycle manager.</li>
        <li>To configure the SMTP server, edit the
            <codeph>~/helion/my_cloud/definition/cloudConfig.yml</codeph> file. There should be a
          section at the bottom for <codeph>smtp-settings</codeph> that looks like the example
          below. If it doesn't exist, you can add it. <p>We have a table above showing descriptions
            of each of these lines.</p>
          <codeblock>smtp-settings:
  #  server: mailserver.examplecloud.com
  #  port: 25
  #  timeout: 15
  # These are only needed if your server requires authentication
  #  user:
  #  password:</codeblock>
          <p>Ensure that you uncomment these lines by removing the hash marks.</p></li>
        <li>Commit your configuration to the <xref href="../../installation/using_git.dita">local git
            repo</xref>, as follows:
          <codeblock>cd ~/helion/hos/ansible
git add -A
git commit -m "My config or other commit message"</codeblock></li>
        <li>Run the configuration processor with this command:
          <codeblock>cd ~/helion/hos/ansible
ansible-playbook -i hosts/localhost config-processor-run.yml</codeblock></li>
        <li>Use the playbook below to update your deployment directory:
          <codeblock>cd ~/helion/hos/ansible
ansible-playbook -i hosts/localhost ready-deployment.yml</codeblock></li>
        <li>Run the Monasca reconfigure playbook to deploy the changes: <codeblock>cd ~/scratch/ansible/next/hos/ansible
ansible-playbook -i hosts/verb_hosts monasca-reconfigure.yml --tags notification</codeblock>
          <note>You may need to use the <codeph>--ask-vault-pass</codeph> switch if you opted for
            encryption during the initial deployment.</note></li>
      </ol>
    </section>
    <section id="database"><title>Choosing a Metrics Database Options</title>
      <p>The monitoring service supports two different database options. The default metrics
        database is <b>Vertica</b>, which is a highly-scalable analytics database from HP. Vertica
        is free to use, up to 12TB, for all paid Helion customers as a Helion operational database
        <!--(please see eula )-->. Vertica is the recommended database for <keyword keyref="kw-hos"
        />.</p>
      <p>You can learn more about Vertica here: <xref
          href="https://www.vertica.com/hp-vertica-documentation/" scope="external" format="html"
          >Vertica Documentation</xref></p>
      <p>The alternative open source database option is <b>InfluxDB</b>. InfluxDB is an emerging
        open source monitoring database, however the current release contains the following
        limitation:</p>
      <ul>
        <li>InfluxDB cluster does not recover upon node failure.</li>
      </ul>
      <sectiondiv id="install_influxdb">
        <p>In order to replace the default database option with InfluxDB as the metrics database,
          you need to follow these steps:</p>
        <p>During the <xref
            href="../../installation/install_entryscale_kvm.dita#install_kvm/configuration">Configure
            Your Environment</xref> portion of the installation, ensure you make these configuration
          file edits:</p>
        <ol>
          <li>On your lifecycle manager, edit the following two files: <ol>
              <li>Edit the <codeph>~/helion/my_cloud/definition/data/control_plane.yml</codeph> file
                and under your control plane cluster <codeph>service-clusters</codeph> section, edit
                the entry for <codeph>vertica</codeph> to read <codeph>influxdb</codeph>.</li>
              <li>Edit the <codeph>~/helion/my_cloud/definition/data/disks_controller.yml</codeph>
                and either replace the existing <codeph>vertica</codeph> information or insert the
                information for InfluxDB as seen below in the section labeled for
                  <codeph>logical-volumes</codeph> on the <codeph>DISK_SET_CONTROLLER</codeph>:
                <codeblock>
  - name: influxdb
    size: 5%
    mount: /var/opt/influxdb
    fstype: ext4
    mkfs-opts: -O large_file
    consumer:
        name: influxdb</codeblock></li>
            </ol></li>
          <li>Then, edit the file below to change the value of <codeph>database_type</codeph> to
              <codeph>influxdb</codeph> instead of <codeph>vertica</codeph>: <codeblock>~/helion/hos/ansible/roles/monasca-variables/defaults/main.yml</codeblock>
            <p>Example:</p>
            <codeblock># Must be either vertica or influxdb
database_type: influxdb</codeblock></li>
          <li>Then continue on with the installation steps as documented.</li>
        </ol>
      </sectiondiv>
    </section>
  </body>
</topic>
