<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd" >
<topic xml:lang="en-us" id="topic1606">
  <title><ph conkeyref="HOS-conrefs/product-title"/>Configuring Horizon for Keystone v3</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <othermeta name="layout" content="default"/>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p conkeyref="HOS-conrefs/applies-to"/>
    <p>Horizon does not support Keystone v3 or domains by default.</p>
    <p>As a result:</p>
    <ul>
      <li>the admin cannot perform identity management using the Horizon dashboard</li>
      <li>if the admin creates a user though the CLI using a Keystone v3 token, the user will not be
        able to log in to the Horizon dashboard. Any user created from within Horizon is able to log
        into Horizon. </li>
      <li>The Keystone v3 endpoint is in the format: http://&lt;host>:&lt;port>/v3 and should be the
        internal URL. The local_settings.py file will have the endpoint for v2 by default.</li>
    </ul>
    <p>To use Keystone v3 in Horizon (perhaps to use LDAP), you can manually change the settings
      (see below). When Keystone v3 is enabled, all User, Project, and Domain management must be
      done via the CLI. The Identity panel will not be visible in Horizon.</p>
    <p>Steps to switch Horizon from Keystone v2 to Keystone v3:</p>
    <ol>
      <li>Log in to the lifecycle manager.</li>
      <li>Edit the <codeph>~/helion/my_cloud/config/horizon/local_settings.py</codeph> file and make
        the following changes: <ul>
          <li>Change the <codeph>OPENSTACK_API_VERSION</codeph> to this:
            <codeblock>
OPENSTACK_API_VERSIONS = {
    "identity": 3,
}</codeblock></li>
          <li>Change the <codeph>OPENSTACK_KEYSTONE_MULTIDOMAIN_SUPPORT</codeph> value to
              <codeph>True</codeph>:
            <codeblock>OPENSTACK_KEYSTONE_MULTIDOMAIN_SUPPORT = True</codeblock></li>
          <li>Change the <codeph>OPENSTACK_KEYSTONE_URL</codeph> value to your Keystone v3 endpoint:
            <codeblock>OPENSTACK_KEYSTONE_URL = "http://%s:5000/v3" % OPENSTACK_HOST</codeblock></li>
        </ul>
      </li>
      <li>Run the Dashboard reconfigure playbook:
        <codeblock>cd ~/scratch/ansible/next/hos/ansible
ansible-playbook -i hosts/verb_hosts horizon-reconfigure.yml</codeblock></li>
    </ol>
  </body>
</topic>
