<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd" >
<topic xml:lang="en-us" id="CloudAdmin">
  <title><ph conkeyref="HOS-conrefs/product-title"/>Cloud Admin</title>
  <body>
    
    <section id="intro">
      <title>Cloud Admin</title>
      <p>As a Cloud Admin, you can create new domains, projects, users or remove them.  
        You can also give admin privileges to users you create.</p>
    </section>
    <section>
      <title>Cloud Admin Activities</title>
        <p>You must log into Horizon via the default domain using a cloud admin 
          username and password to create, modify or remove domains, projects or users.  
          Look at the Project picker at the top of the Horizon 
          UI and ensure that the <b>Default</b> domain and the <b>admin</b> project BOTH have checks 
          beside them. Typically, the <b>demo</b> project is selected by default, and this 
          will cause issues if not changed.
          </p>

      <ul>
        <li><b>Create a new Domain</b>
          <ol>
            <li>Click Identity -> Domains in the sidebar</li>
            <li>Click "Create Domain" above the domains list/table</li>
            <li>Enter a domain name ("TESTDOMAIN") and description</li>
            <li>"Enabled" checkbox is checked by default</li>
            <li>Click "Create Domain" button</li>
            <!-- Domain Image goes here -->
          </ol>
        </li>
        
        <li><b>Set Domain context to the newly created Domain</b>
          <ol>
            <li>Click Identity -> Domains in the sidebar (if necessary)</li>
            <li>Click "Set Domain Context" button on the newly created domain ("TESTDOMAIN")</li>
            <!-- Domain context image goes here -->
          </ol>
        </li>
        
        <li><b>Create a New Project</b>
          <ol>
            <li>Click Identity -> Projects in the sidebar</li>
            <li>Click "Create Project" above the projects list/table</li>
            <li>Note Domain ID and Name immutably set to the new domain ("TESTDOMAIN")</li>
            <li>Enter a project name ("TESTPROJECT") and description</li>
            <li>Note the "Enabled" checkbox is checked by default</li>
            <li>Click "Create Project" button</li>
            <!-- Project Image goes here -->
          </ol>
        </li>
        
        <li><b>Create a New User</b>
          <ol>
            <li>Click Identity -> Users in the sidebar</li>
            <li>Click "Create User" above the users list/table</li>
            <li>Note Domain ID and Name immutably set to the new domain ("TESTDOMAIN")</li>
            <li>Enter a user name ("USER1"), description, email address, password</li>
            <li>Note the new project ("TESTPROJECT") is preselected</li>
            <li>Note the role "_member_" is preselected</li>
            <li>Note the "Enabled" checkbox is checked by default</li>
            <li>Click "Create User" button</li>
            <!-- New User Image goes here -->
          </ol>
        </li>
        
        <li><b>Remove User from the newly created project</b>
          <ol>
            <li>Click Identity -> Projects in the sidebar</li>
            <li>Click "Manage Members" in the actions column for the project ("TESTPROJECT")</li>
            <li>In the right column, click the minus ("-") beside the user ("USER1") to remove them from the project</li>
            <li>Click Save to save the change</li>
            <!-- Remove User Image goes here -->
          </ol>
        </li>
        
        <li><b>Assign Admin role to User within the new Domain</b>
          <ol>
            <li>Click Identity -> Domains in the sidebar</li>
            <li>Click "Manage Members" in the actions column for the domain ("TESTDOMAIN")</li>
            <li>If necessary, in the left column, click the plus ("+") beside the user that should be the domain admin.</li>
            <li>In the right column, click the dropdown beside the domain admin user ("USER1") and ensure that 
              ONLY the "admin" role is selected by clicking it. Unselect any other roles selected by clicking them.</li>
            <li>Click Save to save the change</li>
            <!-- Assign Admin Image goes here -->
          </ol>
        </li>
        
        <li><b>Log out of Horizon</b>
          <!-- Log out image goes here -->
        </li>
      </ul>
    </section>
  </body>
</topic>
