<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="DesignateInstallOverview">
  <title><ph conkeyref="HOS-conrefs/product-title"/>Designate Installation Overview</title>
  <body>
    <p conkeyref="HOS-conrefs/applies-to"/>
    <section id="Overview">
      <title>Designate Installation Overview</title>
      <p>The <keyword keyref="kw-hos"/> Designate service supports several different backends for
        domain name service. The choice of backend must be included in the deployment model before
        the <keyword keyref="kw-hos"/> install is completed. By default, the example models will
        deploy and configure PowerDNS onto the control plane nodes. 
      </p>
      <p>The backends that are available within the Designate service are separated into three
        categories, self-contained, external, and 3rd Party. </p>
      <table frame="all" rowsep="1" colsep="1" id="DNSBackendTable">
        <title/>
        <tgroup cols="4">
          <colspec colname="c1" colnum="1" colwidth="1.0*"/>
          <colspec colname="c2" colnum="2" colwidth="1.0*"/>
          <colspec colname="c3" colnum="3" colwidth="1.0*"/>
          <colspec colname="c4" colnum="4" colwidth="1.0*"/>
          <thead>
            <row>
              <entry>Category</entry>
              <entry>Backend</entry>
              <entry>Description</entry>
              <entry>Recommended For</entry>
            </row>
          </thead>
          <tbody>
            <row>
              <entry>Self-contained</entry>
              <entry>PowerDNS, BIND</entry>
              <entry>All components necessary will be installed and configured as part of the HOS
                install.</entry>
              <entry>POCs and customers who wish to keep cloud and traditional DNS
                separated.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>External</entry>
              <entry>InfoBlox</entry>
              <entry>The authoritative DNS server itself is external to HOS, management and
                configuration is out of scope for HLM but remains the responsibility of the
                customer.</entry>
              <entry>Customers who wish to integrate with their existing DNS infrastructure.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>3rd Party</entry>
              <entry>Akamai, DynECT</entry>
              <entry>The authoritative DNS server itself is external to HOS, and is managed by a 3rd
                Party service provider.</entry>
              <entry>Customers hosting public facing services.</entry>
            </row>
          </tbody>
        </tgroup>
      </table>
    </section>

    <section id="GettingStarted">
      <title>Getting Started</title>
    </section>

  </body>
</topic>
