<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topic_qmz_fg3_btx">
  <title><ph conkeyref="HOS-conrefs/product-title"/>Default Settings in the Identity Service</title>
  <body><!--not tested-->
    <p conkeyref="HOS-conrefs/applies-to"/>
    <section id="intro">
      <p>The Identity service, based on OpenStack Keystone, is a vital part of <keyword
          keyref="kw-hos"/>, and as such it is installed automatically by the lifecycle manager
        (just after MySQL and RabbitMQ). Once your cloud is up and running, you can customize
        Keystone in a number of ways, including integrating with LDAP servers. This topic describes
        the default configuration. See <xref href="identity_reconfigure.dita#topic_m43_2j3_bt"/> for
        changes you can implement. Also see <xref href="identity_ldap.dita#ldap"/> for information
        on integrating with an LDAP provider.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="settings"><title>Default settings</title>
      <p><b>Identity service configuration settings</b></p>
      <p>The identity service configuration options are described in the OpenStack documentation on
        the <xref
          href="http://docs.openstack.org/liberty/config-reference/content/keystone-configuration-file.html"
          format="html" scope="external">identity service configuration file (for Liberty)
          page</xref> on the OpenStack site.</p>
      <p><b>Default domain and service accounts</b></p>
      <p>The "default" domain is automatically created during the installation to contain the
        various, required OpenStack service accounts including the following:</p><ul
        id="ul_tzb_lpd_bt">
        <li>neutron</li>
        <li>glance</li>
        <li>swift-monitor</li>
        <li>ceilometer</li>
        <li>swift</li>
        <li>monasca-agent</li>
        <li>glance-swift</li>
        <li>swift-demo</li>
        <li>nova</li>
        <li>monascal</li>
        <li>logging</li>
        <li>demo </li>
        <li>heat</li>
        <li>cinder</li>
        <li>admin</li>
      </ul>
      <p>These are required accounts and are used by the underlying OpenStack services. These
        accounts should not be removed or reassigned to a different domain. The "default" domain
        should only be used for these service accounts.</p>
      <p>For details on how to create additional users, see <xref
          href="../../managing/horizon_createcloudadmin.dita"/>.</p>
    </section>
    <section>
      <title>Pre-Installed roles</title>
      <p>The following are the pre-installed Roles. Additional roles can be created by UIDs with the
        'admin' role. Roles are defined on a per service basis (more information available at: <xref
          href="http://docs.openstack.org/user-guide-admin/manage_projects_users_and_roles.html"
          format="html" scope="external">Manage projects, users, and roles</xref> on the OpenStack
        web site.</p>
      <table frame="all" rowsep="1" colsep="1" id="table_nxh_mhq_4v">
        <tgroup cols="2">
          <colspec colname="c1" colnum="1"/>
          <colspec colname="c2" colnum="2"/>
          <thead>
            <row>
              <entry>Role</entry>
              <entry>Description</entry>
            </row>
          </thead>
          <tbody>
            <row>
              <entry>admin</entry>
              <entry>The 'superuser' role. Provides full access to all of the HPE Helion OpenStack
                services across all domains and projects. This role should only be given to a cloud
                administrator.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>_member_</entry>
              <entry>A general role that enables a user to access resources within an assigned
                project including creating, modifying, and deleting compute, storage, and network
                resources.</entry>
            </row>
          </tbody>
        </tgroup>
      </table> Additional information on these roles can be found in each service policy that is
      stored in the<codeph> /etc/PROJECT/policy.json</codeph> files where PROJECT is a placeholder
      for an OpenStack service. For example, the Compute (Nova) service roles are stored in the
        <codeph>/etc/nova/policy.json</codeph> file. Each service policy file defines the specific
      API functions available to a role label. </section>


  </body>
</topic>
