<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--Edit status: Edited (Michael)-->
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topic_qtp_cn3_bt">
  <title><ph conkeyref="HOS-conrefs/product-title"/>Identity Service Notes and Limitations</title>
  <body>
    <!--not tested-->
    <p conkeyref="HOS-conrefs/applies-to"/>
    <section id="notes"> This topic describes limitations of and important notes pertaining to the
      Identity service.<title>Notes</title>
      <b>Domains</b>
      <ul>
        <li>Domains can be created and managed by the Horizon web interface, Keystone API, and
          OpenStackClient CLI.</li>
        <li>The configuration of external authentication systems requires the creation and usage of
          domains.</li>
        <li>All configurations are managed by creating and editing specific configuration files. </li>
        <li>End users can authenticate to a particular project and domain through the Horizon web
          interface, Keystone API, and OpenStackClient CLI.</li>
        <li>A new Horizon login page that requires a domain entry is now installed by default.</li>
      </ul>
      <b>Keystone-to-Keystone Federation</b>
      <ul>
        <li>Keystone-to-Keystone (K2K) federation provides the ability to authenticate once with one
          cloud and then use these credentials to access resources on other federated clouds.</li>
        <li>All configurations are managed by creating and editing specific configuration files.
        </li>
      </ul>
      <b>Multi-Factor Authentication (MFA)</b>
      <ul>
        <li>The Keystone architecture provides support for MFA deployments.</li>
        <li>MFA lets you deploy nonpassword based authentication, such as a token providing hardware
          and text messages.</li>
      </ul>
      <b>Hierarchical Multitenancy</b>
      <ul>
        <li>Provides the ability to create subprojects within a domain-project hierarchy.</li>
      </ul>
    </section>



    <section id="limitations">
      <title>Limitations</title><b>Authentication with external authentication systems (LDAP, Active
        Directory (AD), or Identity Providers)</b><ul id="ul_u52_jpd_bt">
        <li>No Horizon web portal support currently exists for the creation and management of
          external authentication system configurations.</li>
        <!--  <li>A new Domain Admin API has been included in the Kilo release of OpenStack but is
          currently an "experimental" function and is not recommended for production use until a
          future OpenStack release.</li>-->
      </ul>
      <b>Integration with LDAP
        <?oxy_comment_start author="mwelch" timestamp="20160819T114237-0700" comment="The following two files not found."?>services<?oxy_comment_end?></b>
      <sectiondiv conref="identity_ldap.dita#ldap/ldapLimitations"/></section>
    <section>
      <b>Keystone-to-Keystone federation</b><ul
        conref="keystone_federation.dita#k2kfed/k2klimitations" id="ul_cpz_kn4_4v">
        <li><?oxy_comment_start author="mwelch" timestamp="20160819T114250-0700" comment="What&apos;s this?"?></li>
        <?oxy_comment_end?>
      </ul><ul id="ul_xw2_jpd_bt">
        <li>No Horizon web portal support currently exists for the creation and management of
          federation configurations.</li>
        <li>All end user authentication is available only through the Keystone API and
          OpenStackClient CLI.</li>
        <li>Find additional information at <xref
            href="http://docs.openstack.org/developer/keystone/configure_federation.html"
            format="html" scope="external"
            >http://docs.openstack.org/developer/keystone/configure_federation.html</xref>.</li>
      </ul>
      <b><?oxy_comment_start author="mwelch" timestamp="20160819T114357-0700" comment="The following three files not found."?>WebSSO<?oxy_comment_end?></b><ul
        conref="websso.dita#websso/webssoLimitations" id="ul_v4j_5n4_4v">
        <li><?oxy_comment_start author="mwelch" timestamp="20160819T114417-0700" comment="What&apos;s this?"?></li>
        <?oxy_comment_end?>
      </ul>
      <b>Multi-factor authentication (MFA)</b>
      <ul id="ul_az2_jpd_bt">
        <li><keyword keyref="kw-hos"/> MFA support is a custom configuration requiring HPE
          Professional Services support.</li>
        <li>MFA drivers are not included with <keyword keyref="kw-hos"/> and need to be provided by
          a specific MFA vendor.</li>
        <li>Find additional information at <xref
            href="http://docs.openstack.org/security-guide/content/identity-authentication-methods.html#identity-authentication-methods-external-authentication-methods"
            format="html" scope="external"
            >http://docs.openstack.org/security-guide/content/identity-authentication-methods.html#identity-authentication-methods-external-authentication-methods</xref>.</li>
      </ul>
      <b>Hierarchical multitenancy</b>
      <ul id="ul_tbf_jpd_bt">
        <li>This function requires additional support from various OpenStack services to be
          functional. It is a noncore function in HPE Helion OpenStack and is not ready for either
          proof of concept or production deployments.</li>
        <li>Find additional information at <xref
            href="http://specs.openstack.org/openstack/keystone-specs/specs/juno/hierarchical_multitenancy.html"
            format="html" scope="external"
            >http://specs.openstack.org/openstack/keystone-specs/specs/juno/hierarchical_multitenancy.html</xref>.</li>
      </ul>
      <b>Missing quota information for compute resources</b>
      <p>
        <note>An error message will appear in the default Horizon page if you are running a
          Swift-only deployment (no Compute service). In this configuration, you will not see any
          quota information for Compute resources and will see the following error message: </note>
      </p>
      <p><i>The Compute service is not installed or is not configured properly. No information is
          available for Compute resources.</i></p>
      <p>This error message is expected because no Compute service is configured for this
        deployment. You can ignore this error message.</p>
    </section>
  </body>
</topic>
<?oxy_options track_changes="on"?>