<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN"  "topic.dtd" >
<topic xml:lang="en-us" id="faq">
  <title><ph conkeyref="HOS-conrefs/product-title"/>Frequently Asked Questions</title>
  <body>
    <p conkeyref="HOS-conrefs/applies-to"/>
    <section id="Customization"><title outputclass="testTitle">Customization</title>
      <p><b>What level of customization will be possible via modifying the configuration files and
          using them to deploy?</b></p>
      <p>For full details about the input model and what options are available can be found, see
          <xref keyref="input_model"/>.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="Neutron">
      <title>Neutron Features</title>
      <p><b>How does network separation work and what benefit does it provide?</b>
      </p>
      <p>Network separation is the name given for the practice of segregation of traffic by types.
        The primary drivers for this are performance and security. Having a dedicated channel
        enables a network administrator to exercise better control over the SLA offered to the
        tenant. It is often implemented as part of a security policy that is enforced by the
        security practice in the company.</p>
      <p>There are two types of network separation: physical and logical. Both are the same in that
        they create separate channels for traffic types. For example, a best practice deployment is
        to create separate channel for storage (iSCSI) traffic. This can be done by creating a
        logical separation using VLAN on a single NIC or by dedicating a NIC for this type of
        traffic. In the cloud today, management, tenant, external and services traffic types are
        segregated into their own channels.</p>
      <p><b>How does the Multiple-Network feature work?</b></p>
      <p>Multiple networks is a feature in <keyword keyref="kw-hos-phrase"/> that enables bridging
        of multiple external physical networks to neutron network. Using this functionality, a
        tenant can dictate the path taken by the data in the physical network outside the cloud. It
        can also be used for multihoming to two physical networks.</p>
    </section>
  </body>
</topic>
