<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "concept.dtd" >
<topic xml:lang="en-us" id="newfeatures30">
    <title>New Features Available in this Release</title>
    <body>

        <section>
            <title>Multipath Boot from SAN</title>
            <sectiondiv conkeyref="multipath_boot_from_san/multipath_overview"/>
            <p>For more information, see <xref keyref="multipath_boot_from_san"/>.</p>
        </section>

        <section>
            <title>Bare Metal (Ironic)</title>
            <sectiondiv conkeyref="install_ironic_overview/ironic_overview"/>
            <p>For more information, see <xref keyref="install_ironic_overview"/>.</p>
        </section>


        <section>
            <title>Object Storage (Swift)</title>
            <p><!-- DOCS-2491 --> Swift has revised their node removal process to use an easier
                method using pass-through. For more information, see <xref
                    href="operations/objectstorage/removing_swift_node.dita"/>.</p>
            <p><!-- DOCS-2554 --> Swift has revised the <codeph>min-part-time</codeph> parameter and
                updated it to <codeph>min-part-hours</codeph> which is in-line with upstream
                OpenStack. See <xref href="administration/objectstorage/swift_min_part_hours.dita"/>
                for more details.</p>
            <p><!-- DOCS-2673 --> Updated process for determining which node in your environment
                should be used for Swift ring building. In previous versions this was done on the
                first Swift proxy server. In <keyword keyref="kw-hos-version-30"/> this will now be
                done on the Swift ring building server. <xref
                    href="troubleshooting/objectstorage/identify_ring_builder.dita"/>.</p>
            <p><!-- DOCS-2674, DOCS-2672, DOCS-2670 --> Swift has added support for erasure coded
                rings. For more information, see <xref
                    href="administration/objectstorage/storage_policies.dita"/>, <xref
                    href="administration/objectstorage/add_new_storage_policy.dita"/>, <xref
                    href="administration/objectstorage/ring_specifications.dita"/>.</p>
            <p><!-- DOCS-2554 --> Swift has added support for zones, which are similar to
                availability zones in the Nova service. For more details, see <xref
                    href="administration/objectstorage/swift_zones.dita"/> and <xref
                    href="administration/objectstorage/changing_swift_zone.dita"/>.</p>
        </section>

        <section><title>Block Storage - Ceph</title>
            <p><!-- DOCS-2832 -->In <keyword keyref="kw-hos-version-30"/>, Ceph OSD disks are referred to by UUID
                instead of by block device name, which is what previous versions used. For more
                details, see <xref
                    href="troubleshooting/blockstorage/troubleshooting_ceph.dita#troubleshooting_ceph/issue8"
                />.</p>
        </section>
        
        <section>
            <title>Dashboard (Horizon)</title>
            <!-- DOCS-2461 -->
            <p>New Cloud and Domain worksflows. For details see: <xref
                    href="administration/horizon/horizon_cloudadmin.dita#CloudAdmin"/> and <xref
                    href="horizon/horizon_domainadmin.dita#DomainAdmin"/>.</p>
        </section>
        
        <section>
            <title>Octavia, LBaaS, FWaaS, DNSaaS, VPNaaS (Neutron)</title>
            <!-- DOCS-2508 -->
            <p>New Octavia Load Balancer. For installation see, <xref
                    href="installation/octavia_installation.dita#OctaviaInstall"/>.  For Octavia
                Administration, see <xref href="networking/octavia_admin.dita#OctaviaAdmin"/>.  For
                Octavia Upgrade steps and information, see <xref
                    href="networking/octavia_upgrade.dita#OctaviaUpgrade"/>
            </p>
            <!-- DOCS-2638 -->
            <p>New SSL/TLS features for LBaaS. For more information see <xref
                    href="userguide/lbaas.dita#HP2.0LBaaS"/>
            </p>
            <!-- DOCS-2640 -->
            <p>New Reject rule feature for FWaaS. For more information see <xref
                    href="networking/fwaas.dita#HP2.0FWaaS"/>
            </p>
            <!-- DOCS-2709 -->
            <p>New DNS Service (Designate). The new DNS Service provides several different backends
                for domain name service. It requires configuration before the <keyword
                    keyref="kw-hos-phrase-30"/> installation, therefore please refer to the <xref
                    href="installation/designate/designate_install_overview.dita#DesignateInstallOverview"
                /> for instructions on how to setup and configure the DNS Service.
            </p>      
            <!-- DOCS-2830 -->
            <!-- This may not make it into the RC
            <p>VPNaaS  Upgrade
            </p>
            -->
            
        </section>
        <section><title>Keystone to Keystone Federation</title><p>Using Keystone to Keystone (K2K)
            federation, the user, or requester can have one identity to be used across services. In
            HPE Helion OpenStack, the service provider is the OpenStack cloud. Using  federation, a number of different identity providers, such as Active Directory
            Federation Services (ADFS) or SAML2 can be used to provide identity information and
            authentication.</p> </section>
        <section><title>Key Management with Barbican</title><p>Barbican is an OpenStack key management
            service offering secure storage, provisioning, and management of key data. The Barbican
            service provides management of secrets, keys and certificates via multiple storage back
            ends. Barbican supports symmetric and asymmetric key generation using various algorithms
            and has two types of core feature sets: the Barbican component, which exposes a REST API
            for secrets/containers/orders and Barbican workers for asynchronous order processing.</p> </section>
        <section id="rbac">
            <title>Role-based Access Control (RBAC) Networking Support </title><p>The RBAC feature in
            this release enables better security as administrators can now control who has access to
            specific networks, which represents a significant improvement over the previous
            all-or-nothing approach to shared networks. </p></section>
        <section id="adminRoles">
            <title>Separate Service Administrator Role</title><p>Each OpenStack service account now has
            an optional role available to restrict the OpenStack functions each account can access.
            This feature enables cloud administrators to apply service-specific role-based,
            admin-level access to a specific UserID, with the ability to audit admin-level actions.
            See <xref href="security/admin_role_segregation.dita#roleSegregation"/> for more
                information.</p></section>
        <section id="interservicePasswords">
            <title>Inter-service Password Enhancements</title><p>Now you can conveniently change the
            inter-service passwords used for authenticating communications between services in your
            HPE Helion cloud deployment, promoting better compliance with your organization’s
            security policies. </p></section>
        <section id="red_hat">
            <title>SELinux for Red Hat KVM </title><p>SELinux (also known as Security-Enhanced Linux)
            provides enhanced security at the hypervisor layer on the compute nodes by mitigating
            the risk of hypervisor attacks and strongly isolating the guest VMs. It enforces
            mandatory access control security policies for the compute nodes (svirt process) running
            Red Hat KVM, thus reducing the risk of a hypervisor breakout. </p> </section>
        <section id="in_transit"><title>Data in Transit Protection via Configurable TLS for Internal
            API Endpoints</title><p> With <keyword keyref="kw-hos-phrase"/>, data transmission
            between internal API endpoints is encrypted using TLS v 1.2 to protect sensitive data
            against unauthorized disclosure and modification (spoofing and tampering attacks).
            Additionally, you can configure TLS using your own certificates, from a Certificate
            Authority of your choice, providing deployment flexibility.</p></section>
        <section id="dataSecurity"><title>Data at Rest Protection using Project-based Encryption</title>
            <p>With this release you can encrypt sensitive data-at-rest on per tenant or project
                basis, while storing and managing keys externally and centrally using HPE ESKM. This
                capability requires the OpenStack Barbican API and OASIS KMIP (Key Management
                Interoperability Protocol) plugins for integration, and supports encryption of
                Cinder block storage with <keyword keyref="kw-hos-phrase"/>. </p></section>
        <section id="cadf"><title>CADF-compliant Security Audit Logs</title><p>Security audit logs for
            critical services such as identity, compute, block storage, the image service,
            orchestration, networking, etc. are available in a standard CADF (Cloud Audit Data
            Federation) format. These logs contain information on events such as unauthorized
            logins, admin level access, unsuccessful login attempts, and anomalous deletion of VMs
            etc. that are critical from a security threat monitoring standpoint. </p></section>
        <section id="pciReady">
            <title>PCI Readiness</title><p>
            <keyword keyref="kw-hos-phrase"/> is now PCI (Payment Card Industry) ready, enabling
            retail and finance industries that are subject to PCI compliance, to become certified.
            The readiness is based on lab assessment and verification conducted by an external audit
            firm, against the more than 250 security requirements specified in the PCI DSS (Data
            Security Standard) v3.1 standards document. </p></section>
        <section id="mtuConfig">
            <title>MTU Configurabiity</title><p> In <keyword keyref="kw-hos-phrase"/> you can configure
            maximum transmission units (MTUs) in a number of places. MTU can be set as an attribute
            of a network group in network_groups.yml (this applies only to KVM), assigning every
            network in the network group the specified MTU. For more information, see <xref
                href="networking/configure_mtu.dita#configureMTU"/>.</p></section>
        
        <section><title>IP Address Management</title><p>Starting with this release, HPE Helion
            OpenStack networking includes a pluggable interface for the IP Address Management (IPAM)
            function. This interface creates a driver framework for the allocation and de-allocation
            of subnets and IP addresses, enabling the integration of alternate IPAM implementations
            or third-party IP Address Management systems.</p> </section>
        <section><title>Provider Network Support</title><p>A provider network is a virtual network
            created in the HPE Helion OpenStack cloud that is consumed by Helion services. A benefit
            of a provider network is that it does not create a virtual router; rather, it depends on
            L3 routing that is provided by the infrastructure. A provider network can easily be
            created by adding the specification to the HPE Helion OpenStack input model.
        </p></section>
        <section><title>L2 Gateway Agent </title><p>The L2 gateway agent is an interoperable SDN
            (Software-Defined Networking) and network virtualization solution. The agent allows
            users to leverage their physical and virtual network to work together as a single
            entity, thus eliminating the manual network configuration, which is time consuming and
            error prone.</p> </section>
    </body>
</topic>
