<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd" >
<topic xml:lang="en-us" id="release-notes-215">
    <title><keyword keyref="kw-hos-tm"/> 2.1.5 Release Notes</title>
    <body>

        <section id="about">
            <p>This document provides an overview of the new features contained within HPE Helion
                OpenStack 2.1.5. </p>
        </section>
        <section/>
        <section id="issues_fixed">
            <title>Issues Fixed in this Release</title>
            <p>This release includes the following fixes:</p>
            <p><b>HPE Linux compute node crashes due to kernel panic</b></p>
            <p>Beginning with linux kernel version 3.14.57, random periodic kernel panics and
                reboots may occur. This kernel upgrade fixes the issue with a new kernel.</p>
            <p><b>OpenSSL updates </b></p>
            <!-- <p>to address:https://security-tracker.debian.org/tracker/CVE-2016-2108 and
                https://security-tracker.debian.org/tracker/CVE-2016-2107 </p>-->
            <ol id="ol_crj_44h_1w">
                <li>The ASN.1 implementation in OpenSSL before 1.0.1o and 1.0.2 before 1.0.2c allows
                    remote attackers to execute arbitrary code or cause a denial of service. </li>
                <li>The AES-NI implementation in OpenSSL before 1.0.1t and 1.0.2 before 1.0.2h does
                    not consider memory allocation during a certain padding check, which allows
                    remote attackers to obtain sensitive cleartext information.</li>
            </ol>
            <p><b>Emulex be2net driver: unsuccessful NIC failover fixed</b></p>
            <p>Addresses a failover issue with the Emulex NIC driver in HPE Linux. When the primary
                network uplink is removed from the switch, the disconnect carrier signal is not sent
                to the Emulex driver telling it to switch over to the secondary path.</p>
            <p><b>QEMU security fix</b></p>
            <p>A security issue affecting Red Hat Linux has been fixed.</p>
        </section>
        <section>
            <p><b>HLX-2014: </b></p>
            <p>Link status messages in kernel log with backported be2net 10.2u driver</p>
        </section>
        <section><title>Upgrading or Installing</title><b>Download the package</b><p>To download HPE
                Helion OpenStack 2.1.5, log into <xref
                    href="https://helion.hpwsportal.com/catalog.html#/Category/%7B%22categoryId%22%3A10389%7D/Show"
                    format="html" scope="external">HDN</xref> and find the location of Helion
                OpenStack 2.1.5. The file you download will be called HelionOpenStack-2.1.5.tgz. The
                ISO will be named _______________. </p><p>To upgrade, follow the instructions in
                    <xref href="installation/upgrade2x_to_215.dita#upgrade2xto215">Upgrading to HPE
                    Helion OpenStack 2.1.5</xref></p><p>To perform a full install of HPE Helion
                OpenStack 2.1.5, follow the instructions for your specific configuration needs in
                the <xref href="installation/installation_overview.dita#install_overview"
                    >installation section</xref>.</p></section>


       <!-- <section id="known_issues">
            <title>Known Issues in this Release</title>
        </section>-->



    </body>
</topic>
