<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="relnotes301">
  <title><keyword keyref="kw-hos-tm"/>
    <keyword keyref="kw-hos-version-301"/>: Release Notes</title> 
  <body>
    <p> <keyword keyref="kw-hos-phrase-301"/> focuses mainly on Boot from SAN support over FCoE
      using QLogic FlexFabric adapters. Other issues addressed are listed below. </p>
    
    <section><title>Fixed in this release</title>
    <p>HPE Linux Updates: </p><ul id="ul_qyc_v2z_sw">
   
    <li>Fixed: Issues with FCOE Boot from SAN support: <!--HLX-1832--> (Failed to detect 3PAR disks for
        native-fcoe install boot from san), <!--HLX-1824--> (Persistent device naming / FCoE
        indentification), <!--HLX-1828--> (multipath does not return all paths for a four-path/LUN,
        256 LUN FCoE/multipath setup), <!--HLX-1917--> (The -B option on the multipathd is not being
        honoured.) </li>
      <li>Fixed:<!--HLX-1817--> kernel defect (Compute Node unreachable from the lifecycle manager
        node during run of hlm-status playbook).</li>
      <li><!--HLX-1932--> Fixed: Race condition (If the login to the ISCSI target takes too long
        (more that a second) then when the vgchange -a y VG runs it cant find the VG because it has
        not finished the login process and then the files systems are not mounted.)</li>
    </ul>
    
    <p>Update to Ceph Firefly 0.80.11 </p>
    <!--<p>Verify update to Ceph 0.80.11: STOR-1562 As an operator, I want to deploy (or upgrade to)
      0.80.11 Ceph cluster using Helion OpenStack 3.0.1 - IN PROGRESS </p>-->
    <p>Fixed: Ironic OSSA (Vulnerability  in OpenStack Ironic whereby Ironic node information
      including credentials is exposed to unauthenticated users.)</p>
      <p>Fixed: Upgrade may fail - Can't load firmware file bnx2x/bnx2x-e2-7.12.30.0.fw. This issue,
        present in <keyword keyref="kw-hos-phrase-30"/>  has been fixed in <keyword keyref="kw-hos-phrase-301"/> .</p>
  </section>
    
    <section><title>New in this release</title> A new check has been added to the percona play to
      check for cluster partitioning. Information is available in the article <xref
        href="operations/troubleshooting/percona_partitioning_check.dita#topic_hzq_2nz_sw"
        >Checking for Percona Cluster Partitioning</xref></section>
    <section><title>Known Issues in this release</title><b> Problem:</b> The ESX compute instance
      loses its ping to the instance private IP address after taking snapshot of ESX compute
      instances. </section>
    <section><b>Workaround:</b> Restart the particular OVSvAPP node of the host on which instance is
      launched. </section>
    <section><b>Problem:</b> Load balancer instances stuck in pending_delete or Error state require
      manual ceanup. </section>
    <section><b>Workaround:</b> See the article <xref
      href="networking/cleanupErrorInstances.dita#deleteStuckLoadbalancer">Deleting Load Balancer Instances Stuck in Pending_delete or Error State</xref> for
      instructions.</section>
 
    <section id="DOCS-3594"><b>Problem:</b> <codeph>bm-reimage</codeph> fails during the disk partitioning/filesystem creation phase on RedHat node that has been installed previously. </section>
    <section><b>Workaround:</b> Power cycle the node to restart the imaging process for this node.</section>
    
    
    <section>
      
      <title>Upgrading to <keyword keyref="kw-hos-phrase-301"/></title> 
      
      <p>Whether you are upgrading from <keyword keyref="kw-hos-version-21X"/> or <keyword keyref="kw-hos-version-30"/>, the
        core procedure is the same and is documented <xref href="upgrade/upgrade21to30.dita#upgradeto30">here</xref>.
      Note that you are required to reboot your nodes so that they will get the latest version of Linux for HPE Helion. 
      </p>
    
    </section>
    

    
    
  </body>
</topic>
