<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="relnotes302">
  <title><keyword keyref="kw-hos-tm"/>
    <keyword keyref="kw-hos-version-302"/>: Release Notes</title> 
  <body>
    <p>
      <keyword keyref="kw-hos-phrase-302"/> . </p>
    
    <section><title>Fixed in this release</title><p><b>Unable to delete load balancers unless they are in active state</b>. After creating load
        balancers, if they went into an ERROR or inactive state, the load balancers could not be
        deleted. </p>
      <p><b>Error in nova_heartbeat_check</b> An error in nova_heartbeat_check was resulting in Nova status information missing in the operations console.</p>
      <p><b>Instance resizing fails</b> Resizing an instance created from a bootable volume was
        failing with AttributeError: 'NoneType' object has no attribute 'backing'.</p>
      <p><b>After Keystone password change, the operations console displays blank appliance
          screen</b> After changing the Keystone password, the appliances screen of the operations
        console was would not be populated and notification errors were reported.</p>
      <p><b>Cannot edit project in Horizon in Swift-only cloud</b> The absence of Nova in a
        Swift-only cloud previously prevented the editing of a project using the Horizon
        dashboard.</p>
      <p><b>Unabale to log into Horizon after running hlm-reconfigure.yml.</b> Previously, a user might be unable to log into the Horizon dashboard after runningi the reconfigure playbook. This has been fixed.</p>
      <p><b>Errors: Unable to set project quotas; Invalid service catalog</b> When running in a
        multi-tenant environment, the Keystone policy file was previously not copied to the correct
        server, causing various project configuration issues. This has been fixed.</p>
      <p><b>After turning off TLS for some endpoints in network_groups.yml, HTTPS was not changed to
          HTTP.</b> This has been fixed.</p>
    </section>
    
    <section>
      <title>Issues in this release</title>
      <p><b>Problems accessing Resource Usage from Admin > System tab in the Horizon
        dashboard</b></p> Loading of the resource page may take a long time and give the impression
      that this tab is not working. In addition, when this page is loaded, on the Resource tab the
      Stats page may not load at all. <p><b>When using the Horizon UI, restore job fails in backup
          and restore</b></p>To work around this issue, when creating a restore action, you must
      name the action the same as the backup action you are restoring. 
    
      <p>If you are upgrading from <keyword keyref="kw-hos-phrase-301"/> to <keyword keyref="kw-hos-version-302"/>
        and encounter a failure running the pre-upgrade <codeph>cinder-status</codeph> check, follow the procedure <xref keyref="cinder_status_failure">here</xref>.
      </p>
    </section>
    
    
    <section>
      
      <title>Upgrading to <keyword keyref="kw-hos-phrase-302"/></title> 
      
      <p>Whether you are upgrading from <keyword keyref="kw-hos-version-21X"/> or <keyword
          keyref="kw-hos-version-30"/>, the core procedure is the same and is documented in the
          <xref href="upgrade/upgrade21to30.dita#upgradeto30">upgrade procedure document</xref>.
        Note that you will be required to reboot your nodes.</p>
    
    </section>
    

    
    
  </body>
</topic>
