<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="newsecurity">
  <title><ph conkeyref="HOS-conrefs/product-title"/>New Security Features Overview</title>
  <body>
    <p conkeyref="HOS-conrefs/applies-to"/>
    
    <section id="overview"><title>New security features in <keyword keyref="kw-hos-phrase"/></title>
      In <keyword keyref="kw-hos-phrase"/>, a number of security enhancements are available to
      strengthen and harden your cloud deployment. Below is an overview of some of the features and
      a brief description. Follow the links to the relevant topics for instructions on setup,
      configuration, and use of these new security features. </section>
    <section id="rbac">
      <title>Role-based access control (RBAC) support for Neutron networks </title>The RBAC feature
      in this release enables better security as administrators can now control who has access to
      specific networks, which represents a significant improvement over the previous all-or-nothing
      approach to shared networks. This is beneficial from a security standpoint as some projects
      (or tenants) have stricter security policies. For example, a finance department must run
      PCI-compliant workloads in isolation from other departments, and thus cannot share their
      Neutron network resources with other departments. RBAC enables cloud admins to create granular
      security policies for sharing neutron resources with one or more tenants or projects, using
      the standard CRUD (Create, Read, Update, Delete) model. </section>
    <section id="adminRoles">
      <title>Separate service administrator role</title>Each OpenStack service account now has an
      optional role available to restrict the OpenStack functions each account can access. This
      feature enables cloud administrators to apply service-specific role-based, admin-level access
      to a specific UserID, with the ability to audit admin-level actions. This functionality
      provides better security by not only providing full visibility into admin-level activities via
      audit logs, but also by fulfilling compliance requirements such as PCI DSS v3.1 standards.
    </section>
    <section id="interservicePasswords">
      <title>Inter-service password enhancements</title>Now you can conveniently change the
      inter-service passwords used for authenticating communications between services in your HPE
      Helion cloud deployment, promoting better compliance with your organization’s security
      policies. The inter-service passwords that can be changed include (but are not limited to)
      Keystone, MySQL, RabbitMQ, HLM cluster, Monasca and Barbican. Admins can implement this
      feature by running the configuration processor to generate new passwords followed by Ansible
      playbook command to change the credentials. </section>
    <section id="red_hat">
      <title>SELinux for Red Hat KVM </title>SELinux (also known as Security-Enhanced Linux)
      provides enhanced security at the hypervisor layer on the compute nodes by mitigating the risk
      of hypervisor attacks and strongly isolating the guest VMs. It enforces mandatory access
      control security policies for the compute nodes (svirt process) running Red Hat KVM, thus
      reducing the risk of a hypervisor breakout. By providing a locked down profile for the
      KVM/QEMU processes that the guest VMs run in, it strongly isolates the guest VMs. With such
      strong security measures as SELinux, malicious attacks on VMs and the underlying host OS are
      much less possible. </section>
   

  </body>
</topic>
