<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="tls30overview">
  <title><ph conkeyref="HOS-conrefs/product-title"/>Transport Layer Security Overview</title>
  <body>
    <!--not tested-->





    <section>
      <p outputclass="aTest">The Transport Layer Security (TLS) protocol, successor to SSL, provides
        the mechanisms to ensure authentication, non-repudiation, confidentiality, and integrity of
        user communications to and between the <keyword keyref="kw-hos"/> services from internal and
        public endpoints.</p>
      <p>OpenStack endpoints are HTTP (REST) services providing APIs to other OpenStack services on
        the management network. All traffic to OpenStack services coming in on the public endpoints
        and all traffic between services can be secured using TLS connections.</p>
      <ul id="ul_tvz_tnv_4v">
        <li>API endpoints in the internal and admin VIPs can now be secured by TLS. </li>
        <li>Barbican-api can be secured by TLS from the loadbalancer to service endpoint. </li>
        <li>TLS can be turned off/on. </li>
        <li>You can add multiple trust chains (certificate authority (CA) certificates).</li>
        <li>Fully qualified domain names (FQDNs) can be used for public endpoints and now they can
          be changed. The abiity to change the domain names is new in <keyword
            keyref="kw-hos-phrase-30"/>. The external name in the input model files (in
            <codeph>~/helion/my_cloud/definition/data/network_groups.yml</codeph>) is where the
          domain name is indicated and changed. </li>
      </ul>
      <ul>
        <li>TLS can be turned off/on. </li>
      </ul>
      <ul>
        <li>For information on enabling and disabling TLS, see <xref href="enabling_tls.dita#tls30"
          /></li>
        <li>For instructions on installing your own certificates, see <xref
            href="generate_own_certs.dita#generateCerts"/></li>
      </ul>
    </section>

  </body>
</topic>
