<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="objectstorage_overview">
  <title><ph conkeyref="HOS-conrefs/product-title"/>Object Storage Overview</title>
  <body>
    <p conkeyref="HOS-conrefs/applies-to"/>
    <section id="about"><title>What is the Object Storage (Swift) Service?</title>
      <p>The <keyword keyref="kw-hos"/> Object Storage service leverages <tm tmtype="reg"
          >OpenStack</tm> Swift which uses software-defined storage (SDS) layered on top of
        industry-standard servers using native storage devices. Swift presents an object paradigm,
        using an underlying set of disk drives. The disk drives are managed by a data structure
        called a "ring" and you can store, retrieve, and delete objects in containers using RESTful
        APIs.</p>
      <p><keyword keyref="kw-hos"/> Object Storage provides a highly-available, resilient, and
        scalable storage pool for unstructured data. It has a highly-durable architecture, with no
        single point of failure. In addition, this version of <keyword keyref="kw-hos"/> introduces
        the concept of cloud models, where the user can modify the cloud input model to provide the
        configuration required for their environment.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="services"><title>Object Storage (Swift) Services</title>
      <p>A Swift system is comprised of a number of services: </p><p>
        <ul>
          <li>Swift-proxy provides the API for all requests to the Swift system.</li>
          <li>Account and container services provide storage management of the accounts and
            containers.</li>
          <li>Object services provide storage management for object storage.</li>
        </ul>
      </p><p>These services can be co-located in a number of ways. The following general pattern
        exists in the example cloud models distributed in <keyword keyref="kw-hos"/>:</p><p>
        <ul>
          <li>The swift-proxy, account, container, and object services run on the same (PACO) node
            type in the control plane. This is used for smaller clouds or where Swift is a minor
            element in a larger cloud.</li>
          <li>The swift-proxy, account, and container services run on one (PAC) node type in a
            cluster in a control plane and the object services run on another (OBJ) node type in a
            resource pool. This is used for in larger clouds or where a larger Swift system is in
            use or planned.</li>
        </ul>
      </p><p>Each of these node types can be scaled independently to meet workload and redundancy
        requirements. The storage service can be scaled up as necessary. It can also be scaled
        horizontally to handle an increased number of simultaneous connections and a larger number
        of objects.</p>
    </section>
    <section>
      <p>Swift is configured through a number of YAML files in the HPE Helion implementation of the
        OpenStack Object Storage (Swift) service. For more details on the configuration of the YAML
        files, see <xref href="swift_input_model.dita#modify-input-model"/>.</p>
      <p>You can implement the input model and perform the following Swift tasks:</p>
    </section>
  </body>
</topic>
