<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="designing_swift_zones">
  <title><ph conkeyref="HOS-conrefs/product-title"/>Designing Swift Zones</title>
  <body>
    <section id="overview">
      <title>Swift Zones Overview</title>
      <p>The concept of Swift zones allows you to control the placement of replicas on different
        groups of servers. When constructing rings and allocating replicas to specific disk drives,
        Swift will, where possible, allocate replicas using the following hierarchy so that the
        greatest amount of resiliency is achieved by avoiding single points of failure:</p>
      <ul>
        <li>Swift will place each replica on a different disk drive within the same server.</li>
        <li>Swift will place each replica on a different server.</li>
        <li>Swift will place each replica in a different Swift zone.</li>
      </ul>
      <p>If you have three servers and a replica count of three, it is easy for Swift to place each
        replica on a different server. If you only have two servers though, Swift will place two
        replicas on one server (different drives on the server) and one copy on the other
        server.</p>
      <p>With only three servers there is no need to use the Swift zone concept. However, if you
        have more than servers than your replica count, the Swift zone concept can be used to
        control the degree of resiliency. The following table shows how data is placed and explains
        what happens under various failure scenarios. In all cases, a replica count of three is
        assumed and that there are a total of six servers.</p>
      <table frame="all" rowsep="1" colsep="1" id="table_orp_vh1_cv">
        <tgroup cols="4">
          <colspec colname="c1" colnum="1"/>
          <colspec colname="c2" colnum="2"/>
          <colspec colname="c3" colnum="3"/>
          <colspec colname="c4" colnum="4"/>
          <thead>
            <row>
              <entry>Number of Swift Zones</entry>
              <entry>Replica Placement</entry>
              <entry>Failure Scenarios</entry>
              <entry>Details</entry>
            </row>
          </thead>
          <tbody>
            <row>
              <entry morerows="2">One (all servers in the same zone)</entry>
              <entry morerows="2">Replicas are placed on different servers. For any given object,
                you have no control over which servers the replicas are placed on.</entry>
              <entry>One server fails</entry>
              <entry>You are guaranteed that there are two other replicas.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>Two servers fail</entry>
              <entry>You are guaranteed that there is one remaining replica.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>Three servers fail</entry>
              <entry>1/3 of the objects cannot be accessed. 2/3 of the objects have three
                replicas.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>Two (three servers in each Swift zone)</entry>
              <entry>Half the objects have two replicas in Swift zone 1 with one replica in Swift
                zone 2. The other objects are reversed, with one replica in Swift zone 1 and two
                replicas in Swift zone 2.</entry>
              <entry>One Swift zone fails</entry>
              <entry>You are guaranteed to have at least one replica. Half the objects have two
                remaining replicas and the other half have a single replica.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry morerows="1">Three (two servers in each Swift zone)</entry>
              <entry morerows="1">Each zone contains a replica. For any given object, there is a
                replica in each Swift zone.</entry>
              <entry>One Swift zone fails</entry>
              <entry>You are guaranteed to have two replicas of every object.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>Two Swift zones fail</entry>
              <entry>You are guaranteed to have one replica of every object.</entry>
            </row>
          </tbody>
        </tgroup>
      </table>
    </section>
    <section id="server_groups"><title>Using Server Groups to Specify Swift Zones</title>
      <p>Swift zones are specified in the ring specifications using the server group concept. To
        define a Swift zone, you specify:</p>
      <ul>
        <li>An id - this is the Swift zone number</li>
        <li>A list of associated server groups</li>
      </ul>
      <p>Server groups are defined in your input model. The example input models typically define a
        number of server groups. You can use these pre-defined server groups or create your own.</p>
      <p>For example, the following three models use the example server groups
          <codeph>CLOUD</codeph>, <codeph>AZ1</codeph>, <codeph>AZ2</codeph> and
          <codeph>AZ3</codeph>. Each of these examples achieves the same effect – creating a single
        Swift zone.</p>
      <p>
        <simpletable frame="all" relcolwidth="1.0* 1.0* 1.0*" id="simpletable_edm_bcc_cv">
          <strow>
            <stentry>
              <codeblock>ring-specifications:
                - region: region1
                swift-zones:
                - id: 1
                server-groups:
                - CLOUD
                rings:
                …
              </codeblock>
            </stentry>
            <stentry>
              <codeblock>ring-specifications:
                - region: region1
                swift-zones:
                - id: 1
                server-groups:
                - AZ1
                - AZ2
                - AZ3
                rings:
                …
              </codeblock>
            </stentry>
            <stentry>
              <codeblock>server-groups:
                - name: ZONE_ONE
                server-groups:
                - AZ1
                - AZ2
                - AZ3
                ring-specifications:
                - region: region1
                swift-zones:
                - id: 1
                server-groups:
                - ZONE_ONE
                rings:
                …
              </codeblock>
            </stentry>
          </strow>
        </simpletable>
      </p>
    </section>
  </body>
</topic>
