<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--Edit status: not edited-->
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="NSXv_overview">
  <title>Integrating the VMWare NSX Plugin</title>
  <body><!--not tested-->
    <section id="NSXv_about">
    
      <p>VMWare produces a product called NSX, which embeds networking and security functionality directly into the hypervisor. This is the same networking and security functionality that is typically handled in hardware.  </p>
        
<p>With NSX, you can reproduce in software your entire networking environment. NSX provides a complete set of logical networking elements and services including logical switching, routing, firewalling, load balancing, VPN, QoS, and monitoring. Virtual networks are programmatically provisioned and managed independent of the underlying hardware.</p>

      <p>The HPE Helion Third-Paty Hardware team used VMware's neutron server plugin called NSX-V.
        This plugin is supported in OpenStack Liberty. After installing NSX-V and configuring the
        underlying VMware vSphere environment, the following two deployment scenarios were tested. </p>
<ul>
  <li>Virtual Helion OpenStack Deployment</li>
   <li>Baremetal Helion OpenStack Deployment</li>
</ul>
      <p>While both of these options are supported, this documentation only contains steps for deploying NSX with Helion OpenStack on virtual machines. There are no limitations for either option, so you can choose which deployment will work better in your cloud environment.
        </p>
          <note type="important">This documentation is only an meant as an example of how to integrate NSX with Helion OpenStack. The examples in this documentation may not be suitable for all environments. To configure NSX for your specific environment, use the following design guide created by VMware: (clicking this link automatically downloads a PDF file instead of opening a Web page)
        <ul>
          <li><xref href="https://communities.vmware.com/servlet/JiveServlet/downloadBody/27683-102-8-41631/NSX" scope="external" format="html">Reference Design: VMware® NSX for vSphere (NSX)Network Virtualization Design Guide</xref></li>
        </ul></note>
      
    
      <p>To learn about how the Helion team integrated NSX features into a Helion deployment,
        use the following topics:</p>
      <ol>
        <li><xref href="NSXv_preinstall.dita">NSX Pre-Integration Checklist</xref></li>
        <li><xref href="NSXv_config_vSphere.dita">Configure vSphere</xref></li>
        <li><xref href="NSXv_config_HOS.dita">Deploy Helion on Virtual Machines</xref></li>
            <li><xref href="NSXv_verify.dita">Verify NSX-V Functionality</xref></li>
      </ol>

    </section>
    
  </body>
</topic>
