<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="upgradeto21">
  <title>Upgrade from <keyword keyref="kw-hos-phrase-20"/> to <keyword keyref="kw-hos-phrase-21"
    /></title>
  <body>
    <!--<p conkeyref="HOS-conrefs/applies-to"/>-->
    <section id="about">
      <title>Performing the Upgrade from HPE Helion OpenStack 2.0 to 2.1</title>
      <note type="warning">The process for upgrading HPE Helion OpenStack to version 2.1 requires a
        reboot which may prevent core <b>HPE Helion Development Platform</b> services from
        restarting. If your environment relies on HPE Helion Development Platform, please follow
        instructions for the <xref
          href="/#devplatform/2.0/upgrade_HOS_21.html" format="html"
          scope="peer">HPE Helion Development Platform upgrade process</xref>.</note>
      <p>When upgrading from <keyword keyref="kw-hos-phrase-20"/> to <keyword
          keyref="kw-hos-phrase-21"/> you will use the same configuration files in your
          <codeph>~/helion/my_cloud/definition</codeph> directory as you used when originally
        installing the software.</p>
      <p>The configuration you specified will remain unchanged through the upgrade process;
          <b>however</b>, if you made any configuration changes by passing parameters to any Ansible
        playbooks using the <codeph>-e</codeph> option, you should find the affected files and make
        the required changes directly in the files in <codeph>~/helion/my_cloud</codeph> and commit
        them to the git repository so that those changes are tracked and applied during the upgrade
        process. Otherwise they will not be applied after the upgrade.</p>
      <p>You may also install <keyword keyref="kw-hos-phrase-21"/> as a full install. Those
        instructions are found in the installation guide. See <xref
          href="installation_overview.dita">Installation Overview</xref> for details.  If you choose
        to do a fresh install it is important that you completely wipe your disk prior to doing the
        installation, otherwise errors may occur.</p>
    </section>
    
    <section>
      <title>DNS Service Restart for Helion Development Platform after All Node Reboots</title>
      <note>If you are running HPE Helion Development Platform and are upgrading HPE Helion OpenStack, you must restart your services after restarting all the nodes metioned below.</note>
      <p>The following are the steps you will take to ensure that Helion Development Platform runs
        after the Helion OpenStack upgrade:</p>
      <ol>
        <li>SSH into the HPE Helion OpenStack lifecycle manager.
          <codeblock>ssh stack@&lt;dnsaas-deployer-ip></codeblock></li>
        <li>Navigate to the <codeph>anisble</codeph> directory.
          <codeblock>cd scratch/ansible/next/hos/ansible/</codeblock></li>
        <li>Run the following playbooks in this order.
          <codeblock>ansible-playbook -i hosts/verb_hosts designate-stop.yml
ansible-playbook -i hosts/verb_hosts FND-CLU-start.yml
ansible-playbook -i hosts/verb_hosts rabbitmq-start.yml
ansible-playbook -i hosts/verb_hosts percona-bootstrap.yml
ansible-playbook -i hosts/verb_hosts designate-start.yml</codeblock></li>
      </ol>
    </section>
    <section id="prereqs"><title>Prerequisites</title>
      <p>These steps assume you have an installed and working <keyword keyref="kw-hos-phrase-20"/>
        cloud, and that you have followed the <xref
          href="/#devplatform/2.0/upgrade_HOS_21.html" format="html"
          scope="peer">HPE Helion Development Platform upgrade process</xref> to gracefully shutdown Helion Development Platform Services and instances.</p>
    </section>

    <section id="mainSteps"><title>Upgrade Overview</title>
      <p>To perform the upgrade, the workflow will look something like this:</p>
      <ol>
        <li>Run the upgrade to apply updates to all nodes in the cloud (including the node hosting
          the lifecycle manager itself), as per instructions below.</li>
        <li>Reboot all of the nodes in your cloud in order to take in the new kernel changes
          introduced in <keyword keyref="kw-hos-phrase-21"/>. Instructions on reboot your cloud
          nodes are provided below.</li>
        <li>Note the additional step that is specifically required for upgrading clouds with ESX and
          a further additional step for ESX after all nodes are rebooted.</li>
        <!--<li>Note changes specific to anyone running HPE Helion Development Platform. Several of its
          services require special stopping and restarting.</li>-->
      </ol></section>


    <section id="upgradesteps"><title>Upgrade Instructions</title>
      <ol>
        <li>Sign in and download the <keyword keyref="kw-hos-phrase-21"/> product and signature
          files at the links below: <ol>
            <li><xref
                href="https://helion.hpwsportal.com/catalog.html#/Category/%7B%22categoryId%22%3A10389%7D/Show"
                format="html" scope="external">HPE Helion OpenStack Files</xref></li>
            <li><xref
                href="https://helion.hpwsportal.com/catalog.html#/Category/%7B%22categoryId%22%3A10507%7D/Show"
                format="html" scope="external">HPE Helion OpenStack Signature Files</xref></li>
          </ol></li>
        <li>You can verify the download was complete via the signature verification process outlined
            <xref
            href="https://h20392.www2.hpe.com/portal/swdepot/displayProductInfo.do?productNumber=HPLinuxCodeSigning"
            scope="external" format="html">here</xref>.</li>
        <li>To begin the upgrade process, log in to the lifecycle manager as the user you created
          during the <keyword keyref="kw-hos-phrase-20"/> deployment, and mount the install media at
            <codeph>/media/cdrom</codeph>; for example:
          <codeblock>sudo mount HelionOpenStack-2.1.iso /media/cdrom</codeblock></li>
        <li>Unpack the following
          tarball:<codeblock>tar faxv /media/cdrom/hos/hos-2.1.0-20151211T063256Z.tar</codeblock></li>
        <li>Run the included initialization script to update the deployer:
          <codeblock>~/hos-2.1.0/hos-init.bash</codeblock></li>
        <li>If you have made any made any changes to your configuration files, ensure that you
          commit them to your local git and if any merge conflicts are reported, you must resolve
          them before proceeding:
          <codeblock>cd ~/helion
git add –A
git commit –m "My changes"</codeblock></li>
        <li>Run the configuration processor:
          <codeblock>cd ~/helion/hos/ansible
ansible-playbook -i hosts/localhost config-processor-run.yml</codeblock></li>
        <li>Run the ready deployment playbook:
          <codeblock>cd ~/helion/hos/ansible
ansible-playbook -i hosts/localhost ready-deployment.yml</codeblock></li>
        <li><b>ESX - additional step</b>: If you are using the Entry-scale with ESX model you will
          need to edit the file below and uncomment the EON upgrade step from the YAML file below
          prior to continuing with the upgrade steps.<p>The file to edit is:</p><codeblock>~/scratch/ansible/next/hos/ansible/_hlm-service-upgrade.yml</codeblock>
          <p>The line to uncomment is:</p>
          <codeblock>eon-upgrade.yml</codeblock></li>


        <li>Get status of all your services, if desired <codeblock>cd ~/scratch/ansible/next/hos/ansible
ansible-playbook -i hosts/verb_hosts hlm-status.yml</codeblock>
          <p>If status comes back bad for any service, run the service reconfigure playbook, with
            naming convention <codeph>&lt;service>-reconfigure.yml</codeph>, for that service, then
            run the status playbook for that service and see if the issue is resolved.</p>
          <p>The status playbooks have this naming convention:</p>
          <codeblock>&lt;service>-status.yml</codeblock>
          <p>A full list is included at the end of this document.</p></li>
        <li>Run the upgrade playbook (required for all models/deployments): <codeblock>cd ~/scratch/ansible/next/hos/ansible
ansible-playbook -i hosts/verb_hosts hlm-upgrade.yml</codeblock>
          <note>You will see an Ansible code style warning: [WARNING]: It is unnecessary to use '{{' in conditionals, leave variables in loop expressions bare.  Please ignore.</note>
          <note>You may run the <codeph>hlm-status.yml</codeph> playbook any time you like for
            status information.</note></li>
        <li><b>ESX - additional step:</b> Once the upgrade is complete, skip to the <xref
            href="upgrade.dita#upgradeto21/esx">Further ESX Model Upgrade Instructions</xref>
          section.</li>
      </ol>
    </section>
    <section id="rebooting_general"><title>Rebooting Your Nodes</title>
      <p>To complete the upgrade and for Linux for HPE Helion updates to take effect, you must
        reboot all your nodes. The instructions for rebooting controller, compute, and storage nodes
        are found below. Note that you should follow the order prescribed for each type of
        deployment, for example, Swift, VSA, or Ceph.</p>
      <p>Expand the sections below for those instructions.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="expandCollapse">
      <sectiondiv outputclass="expandall">Expand All</sectiondiv>
      <sectiondiv outputclass="collapseall">Collapse All</sectiondiv>
    </section>
    <section id="generalOrder">
      <title outputclass="headerH">Recommended Node Reboot Order</title>
      <sectiondiv outputclass="insideSection"><p>To ensure that rebooted nodes reintegrate into the
          cluster, the key is having enough time between controller reboots. </p> The recommended
        way to achieve this is as follows: <ol>
          <li>Reboot controller nodes one-by-one with a suitable interval in between. If you
            alternate between controllers and compute nodes you will gain more time between the
            controller reboots. </li>
          <li>Reboot of compute nodes (if present in your cloud).</li>
          <li>Reboot of Swift nodes (if present in your cloud).</li>
          <li>Reboot of VSA nodes (if present in your cloud)</li>
          <li>Reboot of Ceph nodes (if present in your cloud).</li>
          <li>Reboot of ESX nodes (if present in your cloud).</li>
        </ol>
      </sectiondiv></section>
    <section id="rebootControllers"><title outputclass="headerH">Rebooting Controller Nodes</title>
      <sectiondiv outputclass="insideSection">
        <p><b>Migrate Singleton Services First</b></p>
        <note>If you have previously rebooted your lifecycle manager for any reason, ensure that the
          apache2 service is running before continuing. To start the apache2 service, use this
          command: <codeblock>sudo systemctl start apache2</codeblock>
        </note>
        <p>The first consideration before rebooting any controller nodes is that there are a few
          services that run as singletons (non-HA), thus they will be unavailable while the
          controller they run on is down. Typically this is a very small window, but if you want to
          retain the service during the reboot of that server you should take special action to
          maintain service, such as migrating the service.</p>
        <p>For these steps, if your singleton services are running on controller1 and you move them
          to controller2, then ensure you move them back to controller1 before proceeding to reboot
          controller2.</p>
        <p><b>For the <codeph>cinder-volume</codeph> singleton service:</b></p>
        <p>Execute the following command on each controller node to determine which node is hosting
          the cinder-volume singleton. It should be running on only one node: </p>
        <codeblock>ps auxww | grep cinder-volume | grep -v grep</codeblock>
        <p>Run the <codeph>cinder-migrate-volume.yml</codeph> playbook specifying the node to
          migrate to in the <codeph>migrate_host</codeph> argument:</p>
        <codeblock>cd ~/scratch/ansible/next/hos/ansible 
ansible-playbook -i hosts/verb_hosts cinder-migrate-volume.yml --extra-vars "migrate_host=padawan-ccp-c1-m2-mgmt"</codeblock>
        <p>More details about the Cinder volume and backup migration instructions can be found in
            <xref href="../blockstorage/singleton_service_cinder.dita#topic_l1p_vpy_jt">Managing
            Cinder Volume and Backup Services</xref>.   </p>
        <p><b>For the <codeph>nova-consoleauth</codeph> singleton service:</b></p>
        <p>The <codeph>nova-consoleauth</codeph> component runs by default on the first controller
          node, that is, the host with <codeph>consoleauth_host_index=0</codeph>. To move it to
          another controller node before rebooting controller 0, run the ansible playbook
            <codeph>nova-start.yml</codeph> and pass it the index of the next controller node. For
          example, to move it to controller 2 (index of 1), run:
          <codeblock>cd ~/scratch/ansible/next/hos/ansible
ansible-playbook -i hosts/verb_hosts nova-start.yml --extra-vars "consoleauth_host_index=1"</codeblock></p>
        <note>For the HPE Helion OpenStack versions prior to 2.1.2, manually stop the
            <codeph>nova-consoleauth</codeph> service on the node which is going to reboot after
          moving the service to a different controller via the Ansible playbook above. Use
            <codeph>sudo systemctl stop nova-consoleauth</codeph> to stop the service
          manually.</note>
        <p><b>Reboot the Controllers</b></p>
        <p>In order to reboot the controller nodes, you must first retrieve a list of nodes in your
          cloud running control plane services.</p>
        <codeblock>for i in $(grep -w cluster-prefix ~/helion/my_cloud/definition/data/control_plane.yml | awk '{print $2}'); do grep $i ~/scratch/ansible/next/hos/ansible/hosts/verb_hosts | grep ansible_ssh_host | awk '{print $1}'; done</codeblock>
        <p>Then perform the following steps from your lifecycle manager for each of your controller
          nodes:</p>
        <ol>
          <li>If any singleton services are active on this node, they will be unavailable while the
            node is down. If you want to retain the service during the reboot, you should take
            special action to maintain the service, such as migrating the service as appropriate as
            noted above.</li>
          <li>Stop all services on the controller node that you are rebooting first:
            <codeblock>cd ~/scratch/ansible/next/hos/ansible
ansible-playbook -i hosts/verb_hosts hlm-stop.yml --limit &lt;controller node></codeblock></li>
          <li>Reboot the controller node, e.g. run the following command on the controller itself: <codeblock>sudo reboot</codeblock>
            <p>Note that the current node being rebooted could be hosting the lifecycle manager.</p>
          </li>
          <li>Wait for the controller node to become ssh-able and allow an additional minimum of
            five minutes for the controller node to settle. Start all services on the controller
            node:
            <codeblock>cd ~/scratch/ansible/next/hos/ansible
ansible-playbook -i hosts/verb_hosts hlm-start.yml --limit &lt;controller node></codeblock>
          </li>
          <li>Verify that the status of all services on that is OK on the controller node:
            <codeblock>cd ~/scratch/ansible/next/hos/ansible
ansible-playbook -i hosts/verb_hosts hlm-status.yml --limit &lt;controller node></codeblock>
          </li>
          <li>When above start operation has completed successfully, you may proceed to the next
            controller node. Ensure that you migrate your singleton services off the node
            first.</li>
        </ol>
        <note>It is important that you not begin the reboot procedure for a new controller node
          until the reboot of the previous controller node has been completed successfully (i.e. the
          hlm-status playbook has completed without error). </note>
        <note>If your system includes VSA nodes, rebooting a controller node will not re-start CMC
          as it is Java application. You will need to restart it.</note>
      </sectiondiv>
    </section>

    <section id="rebootCompute"><title outputclass="headerH">Rebooting Compute Nodes</title>
      <sectiondiv outputclass="insideSection">
        <p>To reboot a compute node the following operations will need to be performed:</p>
        <ul>
         
          <li>Disable provisioning of the node to take the node offline to prevent further instances
            being scheduled to the node during the reboot. </li>
          <li>Gracefully shut down Helion Development Platform services and instances</li>
          <li>Identify instances that exist on the compute node, and then either: <ul>
              <li>Live migrate the instances off the node before actioning the reboot. OR </li>
              <li>Stop the instances</li>
            </ul>
          </li>
          <li>Reboot the node </li>
          <li>Restart the Nova services </li>
          <li>Restart any instances stopped above, except for Helion Development Platform instances. To 
            gracefully restart Helion Development Platform instances, see the <xref
              href="/#devplatform/2.0/upgrade_HOS_21.html" format="html"
              scope="external">HPE Helion Development Platform upgrade process</xref>.</li>
        </ul>
        <ol>
          <li>Disable provisioning:
            <codeblock>nova service-disable --reason "&lt;describe reason>" &lt;node name> nova-compute</codeblock>If
            the node has existing instances running on it these instances will need to be migrated
            or stopped prior to re-booting the node.</li>
          <li> Live migrate existing instances. Identify the instances on the compute node. Note:
            The following command must be run with nova admin
            credentials.<codeblock>nova list --host &lt;hostname&gt; --all-tenants</codeblock></li>
          <li> Migrate or Stop the instances on the compute node. <p> Migrate the instances off the
              node by running one of the following commands for each of the instances:</p>
            <!--<p>Until
              HOS 3.0 that will be based on the Mitaka release, the only live-migration cases that
              will work are the following:</p> -->
            <p>If your instance is booted from a volume and has
              any number of Cinder volume attached, use the nova live-migration
            command:</p><codeblock>nova live-migration &lt;instance uuid&gt; [&lt;target compute host&gt;]</codeblock>
            If your instance has local (ephemeral) disk(s) only, you can use the --block-migrate
            option:<codeblock>nova live-migration --block-migrate &lt;instance uuid&gt; [&lt;target compute host&gt;]</codeblock>
            Note: The [&lt;target compute host&gt;] option is optional. If you do not specify a
            target host then the nova scheduler will choose a node for you.<p>OR</p><p>Stop the
              instances on the node by running the following command for each of the
            instances:</p><codeblock>nova stop &lt;instance-uuid&gt;</codeblock></li>
          <li>Stop all services on the Compute node:
            <codeblock>cd ~/scratch/ansible/next/hos/ansible
ansible-playbook -i hosts/verb_hosts hlm-stop.yml --limit &lt;compute node></codeblock>
          </li>
          <li>SSH to your Compute nodes and reboot them: <codeblock>sudo reboot</codeblock>
            <p>The operating system cleanly shuts down services and then automatically reboots. If
              you want to be very thorough, run your backup jobs just before you reboot.</p>
          </li>
          <li>Run the hlm-start.yml playbook from the lifecycle manager. If needed, use the
            bm-power-up.yml playbook to restart the node. Specify just the node(s) you want to start
            in the 'nodelist' parameter arguments, i.e.
            nodelist=&lt;node1&gt;[,&lt;node2&gt;][,&lt;node3&gt;].<codeblock>cd ~/helion/hos/ansible
ansible-playbook -i hosts/localhost bm-power-up.yml -e nodelist=&lt;compute node></codeblock>
          </li>
          <li>Execute the <b>hlm-start.yml </b>playbook. Specifying the node(s) you want to start in
            the 'limit' parameter arguments. This parameter accepts wildcard arguments and also
            '@&lt;filename>' to process all hosts listed in the file.
            <codeblock>cd ~/scratch/ansible/next/hos/ansible
ansible-playbook -i hosts/verb_hosts hlm-start.yml --limit &lt;compute node></codeblock>
          </li>
          <li>Re-enable provisioning on the node:
            <codeblock>nova service-enable &lt;node-name> nova-compute</codeblock></li>
          <li> Restart any instances you
            stopped.<codeblock>nova start &lt;instance-uuid></codeblock>
          </li>
        </ol>
      </sectiondiv>
    </section>

    <section id="rebootSwift"><title outputclass="headerH">Rebooting Swift Nodes</title>
      <sectiondiv outputclass="insideSection"><p>If your Swift services are on controller node,
          please follow the controller node reboot instructions above.</p>
        <p id="firstp">For a dedicated Swift PAC cluster or Swift Object resource node: </p>For each
        Swift host <ol>
          <li>Stop all services on the Swift node:
            <codeblock>cd ~/scratch/ansible/next/hos/ansible
ansible-playbook -i hosts/verb_hosts hlm-stop.yml --limit &lt;swift node></codeblock>
          </li>
          <li>Reboot the Swift node by running the following command on the Swift node itself:
            <codeblock>sudo reboot</codeblock>
          </li>
          <li>Wait for the node to become ssh-able and then start all services on the Swift node:
            <codeblock>cd ~/scratch/ansible/next/hos/ansible
ansible-playbook -i hosts/verb_hosts hlm-start.yml --limit &lt;swift node> </codeblock>
          </li>
        </ol>
      </sectiondiv>
    </section>
    <section id="vsa"><title outputclass="headerH">Rebooting VSA Nodes</title><sectiondiv
        outputclass="insideSection">
        <p>If your cloud is deployed with VSA, then the reboot sequence will be as follows:</p>
        <ol>
          <li>Identify all VSA nodes of a given cluster </li>
          <li>Pick one of the VSA nodes of the cluster and reboot it manually</li>
          <li>Check VSA VM's status :
            <codeblock>ansible-playbook -i hosts/verb_hosts vsa-status.yml --limit &lt;vsa_node name></codeblock></li>
          <li>Wait for VSA to come up, Check cluster status using CMC ( status should be
            "normal")</li>
          <li>Run the following command from your first controller node which will open the HP
            StoreVirtual Centralized Management Console (CMC) GUI
          
          <codeblock>/opt/HP/StoreVirtual/UI/jre/bin/java -jar /opt/HP/StoreVirtual/UI/UI.jar </codeblock></li>
          <li>To view the cluster status , go to: management group -&gt; click on the respective
            cluster -&gt; check for status</li>
          <li>Repeat steps 2-4 for the other remaining nodes of the same VSA cluster. </li>
          <li>Go to step 1 and repeat all steps for the other clusters.</li>
        </ol>
      </sectiondiv>
    </section>

    <section id="reboot_ceph"><title outputclass="headerH">Rebooting Ceph</title>
      <sectiondiv outputclass="insideSection">
        <!--Note that Ceph has two components: <ul>
          <li>monitor nodes</li>
          <li>OSD nodes</li>
        </ul> If a monitor is deployed on controller node, then the rebooting sequence of the
        controller takes precedence over monitor nodes. You should reboot the group of nodes in
        specified order. For a given group (say controller or compute or VSA or ceph OSD etc),
        reboot should be done one-by-one, in series. For example, if there are three OSD nodes say
        OSD1, OSD2, OSD3 then you should reboot OSD1 and then OSD2 and so on.<ol>
          <li>Controller node (reboot of this will take care of the monitor as well) </li>
          <li>Compute node </li>
          <li>Standalone storage or dedicated storage, including: <ul>

              <li>VSA</li>
              <li>Ceph OSD</li>
              <li>Ceph monitor (if deployed on stand alone node). If monitor is deployed on
                controller node then rebooting sequence of controller takes precedence over monitor
                nodes.</li>
            </ul>
          </li>
        </ol>More commonly, the monitor is deployed as a standalone; i.e., as separate set of
        resource nodes. In this case the reboot sequence will be: <ol>
          <li>Controller node </li>
          <li>Compute node </li>
          <li>Ceph monitor node </li>
          <li>Ceph OSD nodes </li>
        </ol> -->
        <p>There are two categories of ceph nodes:</p>
        <ul>
          <li>monitor nodes</li>
          <li>OSD nodes</li>
        </ul>
        <p>Ceph nodes should be rebooted in their position in the overall sequence described in the
          reboot order section above.</p>
        <p>You should reboot both categories of ceph nodes in the order: monitor nodes, then OSD
          nodes. All ceph nodes should reboot one-by-one, in series. </p> If a monitor is deployed
        on controller node, then the rebooting sequence of the controller caters for the monitor
        nodes, so you need to additionally reboot only the OSD nodes. <p>If the monitor is deployed
          as a standalone; i.e., as separate set of resource nodes, you should reboot the monitor
          nodes before rebooting the OSD nodes.</p> For example, if there are three monitor nodes
        and three OSD nodes say, MON1, MON2 and MON3, with OSD1, OSD2, OSD3, then you should reboot
        MON1, then MON2 and then MON3 followed by OSD1, then OSD2 and so on In both cases, please
        ensure that you are serializing the reboot of a given family (monitor or OSD or controller);
        that is, don't reboot them all at the same time. This will ensure that each service is up
        and running and there is no impact on the client side. To reboot Ceph nodes, follow the
        sequence below to safely reboot the entire Ceph cluster: <ol>
          <li>Reboot a Ceph monitor node in the cluster. </li>
          <li>Once the monitor node comes up, wait for a minute and then execute the following
            command:
            <codeblock>ansible-playbook -i hosts/verb_hosts ceph-status.yml --limit &lt;monitor-hostname></codeblock>
          </li>
          <li>If the above playbook executes successfully, repeat from step 1 to reboot the next
            Ceph monitor node in the cluster. </li>
          <li>Once all the monitor nodes have been rebooted, execute
            <codeblock>ceph quorum_status </codeblock>on a monitor node and ensure that all the
            monitors have joined the quorum by observing that in the output, the "quorum_names"
            section lists all the monitors in the Ceph cluster. </li>
          <li>Login to the OSD node to be rebooted and execute the following command to avoid the
            cluster rebalancing itself: <codeblock>ceph osd set noout</codeblock>
          </li>
          <li>Stop all the OSD services on the current node by executing below command:
          
            <codeblock>sudo systemctl stop  ceph-osd@*</codeblock>
          
         </li><li>Now reboot the OSD node.
         </li><li>Once the OSD node is up, log in and execute the following command and observe that a line similar to "osd.0 192.17.11.7:6801/3824 boot" 
           appears for all the OSDs on the node:
          
           <codeblock>ceph -w</codeblock>
          
          To quit, this command press Ctrl + C
         </li><li>Verify that all the OSDs on this node are 'up' by executing following command (and observing that all the OSDs under the current host are reported as 'up')
          
           <codeblock>ceph osd tree</codeblock>
          
          If any of the OSDs are reported as 'down', please check the logs for the corresponding OSD (in the <codeph>/var/log/ceph/&lt;cluster-name>-osd.&lt;osd_number>.log</codeph> file) for resolving the issue.
         </li><li>Now execute the following command from the re-booted OSD node, to unset the cluster from noout :
            
           <codeblock>ceph osd unset noout</codeblock>
            
         </li><li>Execute the following playbook from the lifecycle manager node to check the status of the OSDs that have just come up: 
            
           <codeblock>ansible-playbook -i hosts/verb_hosts ceph-status.yml --limit &lt;OSD-hostname></codeblock>
              
         </li><li>If the above playbook does not report any errors, repeat from step 5 for another Ceph OSD node in the cluster.
         </li><li>Once the entire cluster is rebooted, execute this command
            <codeblock>ceph health detail</codeblock> to ensure that you see HEALTH_OK. </li></ol>
      </sectiondiv>
    </section>

    <section id="freezer"><title outputclass="headerH">Restarting Freezer Backups</title>
      <p>Follow the steps outlined in <xref href="../operations/restarting_freezer.dita"/> to
        restart your Freezer backups after the node reboots.</p>
    </section>

    <section id="checkVersion"><title outputclass="headerH">Checking Version Updates</title>
      <sectiondiv outputclass="insideSection">
        <p>To check the Linux for HPE Helion version run from the lifecycle manager node to any
          other node via its IP address:</p>
        <codeblock>ssh &lt;IP_address> uname -a</codeblock> The output should be:
        <codeblock>Linux helion-control-plane-cluster1-m1-mgmt 3.14.57-1-amd64-hlinux #hlinux1 SMP Mon Nov 16 08:12:02 UTC 2015 x86_64 GNU/Linux</codeblock>
        To check to see if a node has been successfully updated on a control plane node, run from
        the lifecycle manager node to any other node via its IP address: :
        <codeblock>ssh &lt;IP_address> cat /etc/HP_Helion_version | grep Helion</codeblock> The
        output should look like this:
        <codeblock>HP Helion OpenStack hos-2.1.0 (build 01-291)</codeblock>
      </sectiondiv>
    </section>



    <section id="esx"><title outputclass="headerH">Further ESX Model Upgrade Instructions</title>
      <sectiondiv outputclass="insideSection"><p>Once you have completed the initial upgrade
          instructions, you must follow these additional steps for ESX deployments:</p>
        <ol>
          <li>The new cluster import can be performed directly with the command below on the already
            activated Data center (DC):
            <codeblock>eon cluster-import --vcenter-id &lt;vcenter-id> --cluster-name &lt;cluster-name> --cluster-moid &lt;MOID of cluster></codeblock></li>
          <li>If the cluster activation is on a new DC, follow the steps below before performing the
            cluster-import: <note>Provide the correct eth interface details for
                <codeph>data_interface_order</codeph> and <codeph>trunk_interface_order</codeph>
              parameters as per the defined input model. Refer to <xref
                href="install_entryscale_esx.dita#install_esx/register-network" format="dita"
                >Register ESX Cloud Network Configuration</xref> for more details.</note></li>
        </ol>
      </sectiondiv>
    </section>

    <section id="getStatus">
      <title outputclass="headerH">Get List of Status Playbooks</title>
      <sectiondiv outputclass="insideSection">
        <p>Running the following command will yield a list of status playbooks:</p>
        <codeblock>cd ~/scratch/ansible/next/hos/ansible
ls *status*</codeblock> Here is the list:
        <codeblock>stack@helion-control-plane-cluster1-m1-mgmt:~/scratch/ansible/next/hos/ansible$ ls *status*
      bm-power-status.yml    eon-status.yml      heat-status.yml      logging-producer-status.yml  monasca-status.yml      rabbitmq-status.yml
      ceilometer-status.yml  FND-AP2-status.yml  hlm-status.yml       logging-server-status.yml    neutron-status.yml      sherpa-status.yml
      ceph-status.yml        FND-CLU-status.yml  horizon-status.yml   logging-status.yml           nova-status.yml         swift-status.yml
      cinder-status.yml      freezer-status.yml  ironic-status.yml    memcached-status.yml         ops-console-status.yml  vsa-status.yml
      cmc-status.yml         glance-status.yml   keystone-status.yml  monasca-agent-status.yml     percona-status.yml      zookeeper-status.yml</codeblock>
      </sectiondiv>
    </section>
    <p outputclass="hostarget"/>
  </body>
</topic>
