<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="tintri_overview">
  <title>TinTri Integration Overview</title>
  <body>
    <p>In a very dynamic operating environment, you can’t always predict the number of machines you will need in advance. Even if you design a test based on customer requirements, you can frequently end up scaling the project on short notice. To ease the complexity of this challenge, Helion OpenStack works with the TinTri VMstore products. TinTri products can help you quickly provision virtual machines (VM).</p>
<p>Specifically, Helion OpenStack works with the TinTri Cinder Volume Driver. This TinTri product allows you to manage the following areas:</p>
<ul>
  <li><b>Volumes</b> - create, attach, clone, and delete volumes</li>
  <li><b>Snapshots</b> – create and delete</li>
  <li><b>Glance images</b> – provision volumes quickly with images</li>
  <li><b>Statistics</b> – VM-level of visibility in TinTri VMstore OS 4.0, including Input/Output Operations Per Second (IOPS), throughput and latency. Statistics are also available through the REST API.</li>
</ul>
 
    <p>The following table identifies the specific operations that were tested and verified to be supported.</p>
    <table frame="all" rowsep="1" colsep="1" id="table_TinT_suppOps">
      <tgroup cols="2">
        <colspec colname="c1" colnum="1" colwidth="1*"/>
        <colspec colname="c2" colnum="2" colwidth="1*"/>
        <colspec colname="c3" colnum="3" colwidth="1*"/>
        <colspec colname="c4" colnum="4" colwidth="1*"/>
        <thead>
          <row>
            <entry>Volumes</entry>
            <entry>Snapshots</entry>
            <entry>Glance</entry>
            <entry>Statistics</entry>
          </row>
        </thead>
        <tbody>
          <row>
            <entry>Create volume</entry>
            <entry>Create volume snapshot</entry>
            <entry>Copy an image to a volume</entry>
            <entry>Get volume statistics (volume properties)</entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry>Delete volume</entry>
            <entry>List volume snapshot</entry>
            <entry/>
            <entry/>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry>Attach volume</entry>
            <entry>Delete volume snapshot</entry>
            <entry/>
            <entry/>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry>Detach volume</entry>
            <entry>Create a volume from a snapshot</entry>
            <entry/>
            <entry/>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry>Clone a volume</entry>
            <entry/>
            <entry/>
            <entry/>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry>Extend a volume</entry>
            <entry/>
            <entry/>
            <entry/>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry>Transfer volume between tenants</entry>
            <entry/>
            <entry/>
            <entry/>
          </row>
        </tbody>
      </tgroup>
    </table>
			
    <p>Helion OpenStack also supports integration of Cinder Volume with the following services:</p>
<ul>
  <li>Cinder OpenStack Block Storage</li>
  <li>Nova OpenStack Compute</li>
  <li>Glance OpenStack Image Services</li>
  <li>Multiple Hypervisor managers on the same VMstore</li>
</ul>
   
    <p>To integrate TinTri storage system as a single-VMstore backend with Helion OpenStack:</p>
    <ol>
      <li><xref href="TinT_preinstall_checklist.dita">Meet All Pre-Installation Requirements</xref></li>
        <li><xref href="TinT_install_driver.dita">Install the TinTri Driver</xref></li>
      <li><xref href="TinT_config_verify.dita">Verify TinTri Integration</xref></li>
    </ol>
    <note type="important">
      The installation steps outlined are specifically related to the testing lab used for the Helion Ready certification process, and specifics such as IP addresses will reflect this.</note>
  </body>
</topic>
