<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
  <!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="troubleshootingHeat">
  <title><ph conkeyref="HOS-conrefs/product-title-both"/>Troubleshooting Heat Orchestration</title>
  <body>
    <p conkeyref="HOS-conrefs/applies-to-all"/>
    <section>
      <title>RPC timeout on Heat stack creation</title>
      <p>If you exerience a remote procedure call (RPC) timeout failure when attempting heat
        stack-create, you can work around the issue by increasing the timeout value and purging
        records of deleted stacks from the database. To do so, follow the steps below. An example of
        the error is:</p>
      <codeblock>MessagingTimeout: resources.XXX-LCP-Pair01.resources[0]: Timed out waiting for a reply to message ID e861c4e0d9d74f2ea77d3ec1984c5cb6</codeblock>
      <ol>
        <li>Increase the timeout value. <codeblock>cd ~/helion/my_cloud/config/heat</codeblock>
        </li>
        <li>Make changes to heat config files. In heat.conf.j2 add this timeout
          value:<codeblock>rpc_response_timeout=300</codeblock> Commit your
          changes<codeblock>git commit -a -m "some message"</codeblock></li>
        <li>Move to ansible directory and run the following
          playbooks:<codeblock>cd ~/helion/hos/ansible
ansible-playbook -i hosts/localhost config-processor-run.yml
ansible-playbook -i hosts/localhost ready-deployment.yml</codeblock></li>
        <li>Change to the scratch directory and run heat-reconfigure:
          <codeblock>cd ~/scratch/ansible/next/hos/ansible
ansible-playbook -i hosts/verb_hosts heat-reconfigure.yml</codeblock></li>
        <li>Purge records of deleted stacks from the database. First delete all stacks that are in
          failed state. Then execute the following
          <codeblock>sudo /opt/stack/venv/heat-20151116T000451Z/bin/python2 
/opt/stack/service/heat-engine/venv/bin/heat-manage 
--config-file /opt/stack/service/heat-engine-20151116T000451Z/etc/heat/heat.conf 
--config-file /opt/stack/service/heat-engine-20151116T000451Z/etc/heat/engine.conf purge_deleted 0</codeblock></li>
      </ol>
    </section>
    <section>
      <title>General Heat stack creation errors</title>
      <p>In Heat, in general when a timeout occurs it means that the underlying resource service
        such as Nova, Neutron, or Cinder, fails to complete the required action. No matter what
        error this underlying service reports, Heat simply reports it back. So in the case of
        time-out in Heat stack create, you should look at the logs of the underlying services, most
        importantly the Nova service, to understand the reason for the timeout.</p>
    </section>
    <section>
      <title>Heat stack delete failures</title>
      <p>When attempting <codeph>heat stack-delete</codeph>, most often after the <codeph>heat stack-create</codeph> failure, if you
        experience a resource conflict stating that "one or more ports have an IP allocation resource" you can
        work around the issue by following steps below.</p>
      <p>An example of the error is:</p>
      <codeblock>'Resource DELETE failed: Conflict: resources.XXX.resources.YYY: Unable to complete operation
      on subnet ae43a819-07da-4ec1-b1b9-7843c41b2b92. One or more ports have an IP allocation from
      this subnet.'</codeblock>
      <ol>
        <li>Check all the ports used by the failed Heat stack:
          <codeblock>neutron port-list | awk '{ print $4 }' | grep -e ^&lt;failed_stack_name>-</codeblock></li>
        <li>Delete all the ports used by the failed Heat
          stack:<codeblock>for p in $(neutron port-list | awk '{ print $4 }' | grep -e ^&lt;failed_stack_name>-); do neutron port-delete $p; done</codeblock></li>
        <li>Re-run the <codeph>heat stack-delete</codeph> command to remove the failed Heat
          stack:<codeblock>heat stack-delete &lt;failed_stack_name>"</codeblock></li>
      </ol>
    </section>
  </body>
</topic>
