<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--Edit status: not edited-->
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="F5_BIGIP_3600">
  <title><ph conkeyref="HOS-conrefs/product-title"/>Integrating F5 BIG-IP with LBaaS</title>
  <abstract><shortdesc outputclass="hdphidden">Overview of the integration process for F5 BIG-IP
      with LBaaS.</shortdesc></abstract>
  <body>
    <!--not tested-->
    <p conkeyref="HOS-conrefs/applies-to"/>
    <section id="F53600_about">
      <p>Adding F5 Networks products to your deployment can provide critical application delivery
        services consistently across the data center, private cloud, and public cloud. This allows
        hybrid users to experience the availability and performance they expect.</p>
      <p>The F5 Networks BIG-IP product family includes purpose-built hardware, software, and
        virtualized solutions. Depending on the appliance you use, one or more BIG-IP modules can be
        added to get the functionality your deployment requires.</p>
      <p>Creating an application centered strategy using F5 BIG-IP is supported in all of the
        following scenarios:</p>
      <ul>
        <li>Architecting a private cloud</li>
        <li>Migrating and re-architecting existing applications to a public cloud LBaaS (load
          balancing as a service) provider</li>
        <li>Moving to Software as a Service (SaaS)</li>
        <li>Deploying applications in a hybrid environment</li>
        <li>Ensuring business continuity</li>
      </ul>
      <note>Keep in mind that flexible licensing options are available, based on where you want to
        deploy.</note>
      <p>The <keyword keyref="kw-hos"/> Third-Party Hardware team integrated F5 BIG-IP into a
          <keyword keyref="kw-hos-phrase"/> deployment by configuring an F5 BIG-IP device to run as
        a load balancer for Neutron LBaaS v2. The installation uses a VXLAN tunnel (VTEP) to connect
        a private network from the HPE Helion OpenStack cloud to the F5 BIG-IP appliance.</p>
      <p>HTTPS/TLS load balancing with certificates stored in OpenStack Barbican is supported with
        some additional configuration.</p>
      <note type="important"><keyword keyref="kw-hos-phrase"/> must be deployed before the F5
        installation is performed. This is due to the F5 driver not being built directly into HPE
        Helion OpenStack by default, and because the F5 installation depends on the existence of HPE
        Helion OpenStack Neutron environment.</note>
    </section>
  </body>
</topic>
