<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd" >
<topic xml:lang="en-us" id="CreateHARouter">
  <title><ph conkeyref="HOS-conrefs/product-title"/>Creating a Highly Available Router</title>
  <body>
    <p conkeyref="HOS-conrefs/applies-to"/>
    <section id="Intro">
        <title>Creating a High Availability Router</title>
        <p>You can create a highly available router.</p>
      
        <ol>
          <li>To create the HA router simply add the <codeph>-ha True</codeph> to the 
          neutron router-create command.  In this example, the router name is 
          <codeph>routerHA</codeph>.
          <codeblock>$ neutron router-create routerHA -ha True</codeblock></li>
          <li>Set the gateway for the external network and add interface
          <codeblock>$ neutron router-gateway-set routerHA &lt;ext-net-id&gt;
$ neutron router-interface-add routerHA &lt;private_subnet_id&gt;</codeblock></li>
          <li>Once the router, gateway and interface are created, you now have a 
          router with high availability.</li>
        </ol>
    </section>
    
   
    <section id="TestRouter">
      <title>Test Router for High Availability</title>
      <p>You can demonstrate that the router is HA by running a continuous ping from a VM instance
        that is running on the private network to an external network such as Googles public DNS. As
        the ping is running, we identify the L3 agent that is responsible for the router. Induce the
        failover mechanism by creating a catastrophic event like shutting down the primary router’s
        node. Once the node is shut down, you will see that the ping from the VM to the external
        network continues to run as the failover of the agents restores the ping to external
        network. To make sure the agent has changed, identify the agent of the same router again.
        You will see a different agent. </p>
      <ol>
        <li>Boot an instance on the private network
        <codeblock>$ nova boot --image &lt;image_id&gt; --flavor &lt;flavor_id&gt; --nic net_id=&lt;private_net_id&gt; VM1</codeblock></li>
        <li>Log into the VM using ssh with keys</li>
        <li>Start a ping to 8.8.8.8 (Google).  While pinging, make sure there is no packet loss
        and leave the ping running.
        <codeblock>$ ping 8.8.8.8</codeblock></li>
        <li>Check which agent is active with the router
        <codeblock>$ neutron l3-agent-list-hosting-router &lt;router_id&gt;</codeblock></li>
        <li>Shutdown the node where the L3 agent is alive.  See <xref
            href="../operations/compute/remove_compute_node.dita#remove_compute_node/shutdown_node"
          /></li>
        <li>Within 10 seconds, check again to see which L3 agent is hosting the router
        <codeblock>$ neutron l3-agent-list-hosting-router &lt;router_id&gt;</codeblock></li>
        <li>You will see a different agent.</li>
      </ol>
    </section>
   

  </body>
</topic>
