<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="multi_extnetwork">
  <title><ph conkeyref="HOS-conrefs/product-title"/>Configuring Multiple External Networks</title>
  <body><!--not tested-->
    <p conkeyref="HOS-conrefs/applies-to"/>
    <p><keyword keyref="kw-hos-phrase"/> Multiple External Network Configuration</p>
    <p>This document describes the configuration process and requirements for the <keyword
        keyref="kw-hos-phrase"/> Multiple External Network.</p>
    <p>
      <ul id="LBaaSlist">
        <li><xref href="../networking/multinetwork.dita#HP2.0multinetwork/Prerequisites"
            >Prerequisites</xref></li>
        <li><xref href="../networking/multinetwork.dita#HP2.0multinetwork/Configuration"
            >Configuration</xref></li>
        <li><xref href="../networking/multinetwork.dita#HP2.0multinetwork/MoreInfo">More
            Information</xref></li>
      </ul>
    </p>

    <section id="Prerequisites">
      <title>Prerequisites</title>
      <p><keyword keyref="kw-hos"/> must be installed. </p>
    </section>


    <section id="Configuration">
      <title>Configuration</title>
      <p><keyword keyref="kw-hos-phrase"/> Multiple External Network Configuration</p>
      <p>The Network Service (based on OpenStack Neutron) provider VLANs are networks that map
        directly to an 802.1Q VLAN in the cloud provider’s physical network infrastructure. There
        are four aspects to provider VLAN configuration:</p>
      <ul>
        <li>Network infrastructure configuration (e.g. the top-of-rack switch)</li>
        <li>Server networking configuration (for compute nodes and networking service network
          nodes)</li>
        <li>Network service configuration file settings</li>
        <li>Create the corresponding network objects in the network service</li>
      </ul>
      <p>The physical network infrastructure must be configured to convey the provider VLAN traffic
        as tagged VLANs to the cloud compute nodes and network service network nodes. Configuration
        of the physical network infrastructure is outside the scope of the <keyword
          keyref="kw-hos-phrase"/> software.</p>
      
      
      <p><keyword keyref="kw-hos"/> provides the ability to have multiple external networks, by using 
        the Network Service (Neutron) provider networks for external networks.  You can configure 
        <keyword keyref="kw-hos"/> to allow the use of provider VLANs as external networks by following
        these steps.
        <ol>
          <li>Do NOT include the <i>neutron.l3_agent.external_network_bridge</i> tag in the network_groups 
            definition for your cloud. This results in the <i>l3_agent.ini external_network_bridge</i> being set 
            to an empty value (rather than the traditional <i>br-ex</i>).</li>
          <li>Configure your cloud to use provider VLANs, by specifying the <i>neutron.provider_physical_network</i> 
            tag on one of the network_groups defined for your cloud. For example, to run provider VLANSs over 
            the GUEST network group:  (some attributes omitted for brevity) <codeblock>network-groups:
              
- name: GUEST
 tags:
- neutron.networks.vlan:
  provider-physical-network: physnet1</codeblock></li>
          <li>After the cloud has been deployed, you can create external networks using provider
            VLANs. For example, using the Network Service CLI: <ol>
              <li>Create external network 1 on vlan101
                <codeblock>neutron net-create --provider:network_type vlan --provider:physical_network physnet1 --provider:segmentation_id 101 ext-net1 --router:external true</codeblock></li>
              <li>Create external network 2 on vlan102
                <codeblock>neutron net-create --provider:network_type vlan --provider:physical_network physnet1 --provider:segmentation_id 102 ext-net2 --router:external true</codeblock></li>
            </ol>
          </li>
        </ol>
      </p>      
 
      
      
 
    </section>


    <section id="MoreInfo">
      <title>More Information</title>
      <p>For more information on the Network Service command-line interface (CLI), see the OpenStack
        networking command-line client reference: <xref
          href="http://docs.openstack.org/cli-reference/content/neutronclient_commands.html"
          scope="external" format="html"/></p>
    </section>
  </body>
</topic>
