<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="HP2.0multinetwork">
  <title><ph conkeyref="HOS-conrefs/product-title"/>Configuring Multiple Provider Networks</title>
  <body><!--not tested-->
    <p conkeyref="HOS-conrefs/applies-to"/>
    <p><keyword keyref="kw-hos-phrase"/> Multiple Provider Network Configuration</p>
    <p>This document describes the configuration process and requirements for the <keyword
        keyref="kw-hos-phrase"/> Multiple Provider Network.</p>
    <p>
      <ul id="LBaaSlist">
        <li><xref href="../networking/multinetwork.dita#HP2.0multinetwork/Prerequisites"
            >Prerequisites</xref></li>
        <li><xref href="../networking/multinetwork.dita#HP2.0multinetwork/Configuration"
            >Configuration</xref></li>
        <li><xref href="../networking/multinetwork.dita#HP2.0multinetwork/MoreInfo">More
            Information</xref></li>
      </ul>
    </p>

    <section id="Prerequisites">
      <title>Prerequisites</title>
      <p><keyword keyref="kw-hos"/> must be installed. </p>
    </section>


    <section id="Configuration">
      <title>Configuration</title>
      <p><keyword keyref="kw-hos-phrase"/> Multiple Provider Network Configuration</p>
      <p>The Network Service (based on OpenStack Neutron) provider VLANs are networks that map
        directly to an 802.1Q VLAN in the cloud provider’s physical network infrastructure. There
        are four aspects to provider VLAN configuration:</p>
      <ul>
        <li>Network infrastructure configuration (e.g. the top-of-rack switch)</li>
        <li>Server networking configuration (for compute nodes and networking service network
          nodes)</li>
        <li>Network service configuration file settings</li>
        <li>Create the corresponding network objects in the network service</li>
      </ul>
      <p>The physical network infrastructure must be configured to convey the provider VLAN traffic
        as tagged VLANs to the cloud compute nodes and network service network nodes. Configuration
        of the physical network infrastructure is outside the scope of the <keyword
          keyref="kw-hos-phrase"/> software.</p>
      <p><keyword keyref="kw-hos-phrase"/> automates the server networking configuration and the
        Network Service configuration based on information in the cloud definition. To configure the
        system for provider VLANs, specify the<i> neutron.networks.vlan</i> tag with a
          <i>provider-physical-network</i> attribute on one or more network groups. For example
        (some attributes omitted for brevity):</p>
      <codeblock>network-groups:
        
  - name: NET_GROUP_A
  tags:
  - neutron.networks.vlan:
     provider-physical-network: physnet1
        
  - name: NET_GROUP_B
  tags:
  - neutron.networks.vlan:
     provider-physical-network: physnet2</codeblock>
      <p>A network group is associated with a server network interface via an interface model. For
        example (some attributes omitted for brevity):</p>
      <codeblock>interface-models:
  - name: INTERFACE_SET_X
    network-interfaces:
      - device:
        name: bond0
    network-groups:
      - NET_GROUP_A
    - device:
      name: eth3
    network-groups:
      - NET_GROUP_B
      </codeblock>
      <p>A network group used for provider VLANs may contain only a single <keyword keyref="kw-hos"
        /> network, because that VLAN must span all compute nodes and any Network Service network
        nodes/controllers (i.e. it is a single L2 segment). The <keyword keyref="kw-hos"/> network
        must be defined with tagged-vlan false, otherwise a linux vlan network interface will be
        created. For example:</p>
      <codeblock>networks:
        
  - name: NET_A
    tagged-vlan: false
    network-group: NET_GROUP_A
        
  - name: NET_B
    tagged-vlan: false
    network-group: NET_GROUP_B</codeblock>
      <p>When the cloud is deployed, <keyword keyref="kw-hos-phrase"/> will create the appropriate
        bridges on the servers, and set the appropriate attributes in the Neutron configuration
        files (e.g. bridge_mappings).</p>
      <p>After the cloud has been deployed, create Network Service network objects for each provider
        VLAN. For example, using the Network Service CLI:</p>
      <codeblock>neutron net-create --provider:network_type vlan --provider:physical_network physnet1 --provider:segmentation_id 101 mynet101
neutron net-create --provider:network_type vlan --provider:physical_network physnet2 --provider:segmentation_id 234 mynet234</codeblock>
    </section>


    <section id="MoreInfo">
      <title>More Information</title>
      <p>For more information on the Network Service command-line interface (CLI), see the OpenStack
        networking command-line client reference: <xref
          href="http://docs.openstack.org/cli-reference/content/neutronclient_commands.html"
          scope="external" format="html"/></p>
    </section>
  </body>
</topic>
