<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd" >
<topic xml:lang="en-us" id="neutron_overview">
  <title><ph conkeyref="HOS-conrefs/product-title"/>Networking Service Overview</title>
  <body>
    <p conkeyref="HOS-conrefs/applies-to"/>
    <p><keyword keyref="kw-hos"/> Networking is a virtual networking service that leverages the OpenStack
      Neutron service to provide network connectivity and addressing to <keyword keyref="kw-hos"/> Compute
      service devices.</p>
    <p>The Networking service also provides an API to configure and manage a variety of network
      services.</p>
    <p>You can use the Networking service to connect guest servers or you can define and configure
      your own virtual network topology.</p>
    <section><title>Network Separation in Neutron</title><p>Network separation is the name given to the practice of segregating network traffic by types. The
        primary reasons to employ network separation are to increase performance and security.
        Having a dedicated channel enables a network administrator to exercise better control over
        the SLA provided to the tenant. Network separation is often implemented as part of a
        security policy that is enforced by the security practices in the organization.</p>
      <p> There are two types of network separation: physical and logical. Both are the same in that
        they create separate channels for traffic types. For example, a best practice is to create
        separate channel for storage (iSCSI) traffic. This can be accomplished by creating a logical
        separation using VLAN on a single network interface card (NIC) or by dedicating a NIC for
        this type of traffic. In the cloud today, management, tenant, external and services traffic
        types are segregated into their own channels.</p>
    </section>
    <section><title>Multiple Networks</title>
 <p>
      
      The multiple networks feature in HPE Helion OpenStack enables bridging of 
      multiple external physical networks to Neutron network. Using this functionality, 
      a tenant can dictate the path taken by the data in the physical network outside the cloud.
      It can also be used for multihoming to two physical networks.
    </p>
    <!--
    <p>You can also use the Networking service to identify the actual IP address of a malicious
      user, if you know the user's NAT address. For more information, see <xref
        href="../../commercial/GA1/1.1commercial.networking-maskedIP.dita">Tracking masked IP
        addresses when using network address translation (NAT)</xref>.</p>
        -->
    </section>
    <section id="installing-the-networking-service">
      <title>Configuring the Networking service</title>
      <p>Helion Network Administrators are responsible for planning for the Neutron networking
        service, and once installed, to configure the service to meet the needs of their cloud
        network users.</p>
      <!--
      <p>For information, see <xref
          href="../../commercial/GA1/networking/1.1commercial_neutron-intro.dita">Networking Operation
          (Neutron) Administrator Pre and Post Installation Tasks</xref>.</p>
          -->
    </section>
    <section id="working-with-the-networking-service">
      <title>Working with the Networking service</title>
      <p>To perform tasks using the Networking service, you can use the dashboard, API or CLI.</p>
    </section>
    
    <section id="restarting">
      <title>Reconfiguring the Networking service</title>
      <p>If you change any of the network configuration after installation, it is recommended that
        you reconfigure the Networking service by running the neutron-reconfigure playbook.</p>
      <p>On the lifecycle manager:</p>
      <codeblock>cd ~/helion/hlm/ansible
ansible-playbook -i hosts/verb_hosts neutron-reconfigure.yml</codeblock>

    </section>
  <!--
    <section id="UI">
      <title>Using the dashboards</title>
      <p>You can use the <xref href="../../commercial/GA1/1.1commercial.dashboard.how-works.dita">
          <keyword keyref="kw-hos"/> Dashboard</xref> to work with the Networking service.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="API">
      <title>Using the API</title>
      <p>You can use a low-level, raw REST API to access the Networking service. See the <xref
          href="http://developer.openstack.org/api-ref-networking-v2.html" scope="external"
          format="html">OpenStack Networking API v2.0 Reference</xref>.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="cli">
      <title>Using the CLI</title>
      <p>You can use any of several command-line interface software to access Networking. See the
          <xref href="http://docs.openstack.org/cli-reference/content/neutronclient_commands.html"
          scope="external" format="html">OpenStack Command Line Interface Reference</xref>.</p>
      <p>For more information on installing the CLI, see <xref
          href="http://docs.openstack.org/user-guide/content/install_clients.html" scope="external"
          format="html">Install the OpenStack command-line clients</xref>.</p>
    </section>
    -->
    <section id="for-more-information">
      <title>For more information</title>
      <p>For information on how to operate your cloud we suggest you read the <xref
          href="http://docs.openstack.org/ops/" scope="external" format="html">OpenStack Operations
          Guide</xref>. The <i>Architecture</i> section contains useful information about how an
        OpenStack Cloud is put together. However, the <keyword keyref="kw-hos"/> takes care of these
        details for you. The <i>Operations</i> section contains information on how to manage the
        system.</p>
    </section>
  </body>
</topic>
