<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd" >
<topic xml:lang="en-us" id="neutron_provider_networks">
  <title><ph conkeyref="HOS-conrefs/product-title"/>Neutron Provider Networks</title>

  <body>
    <!--not tested-->
    <section>
      <p>This topic explains how to create a Neutron provider network. </p>
      <title>Provider networks overview</title>
      <p id="provider_network_summary">A provider network is a virtual network created in the HPE
        Helion OpenStack cloud that is consumed by Helion services. The distinctive element of a
        provider network is that it does not create a virtual router; rather, it depends on L3
        routing that is provided by the infrastructure. </p>
      <p>A provider network is created by adding the specification to the Helion OpenStack input
        model. It consists of at least one network and one or more subnets. </p>
    </section>
    <section>
      <title>HPE Helion OpenStack input model</title>
      <p>The input model is the primary mechanism a cloud admin uses in defining a Helion
        installation. It exists as a directory with a data subdirectory that contains YAML files. By
        convention, any service that creates a Neutron provider network will create a subdirectory
        under the data directory and the name of the subdirectory shall be the project name. For
        example, the Octavia project will use Neutron provider networks so it will have a
        subdirectory named 'octavia' and the config file that specifies the neutron network will
        exist in that subdirectory.</p>
      <codeblock>├── cloudConfig.yml
    ├── data
    │   ├── control_plane.yml
    │   ├── disks_compute.yml
    │   ├── disks_controller_1TB.yml
    │   ├── disks_controller.yml
    │   ├── disks_vsa.yml
    │   ├── firewall_rules.yml
    │   ├── net_interfaces.yml
    │   ├── network_groups.yml
    │   ├── networks.yml
    │   ├── neutron
    │   │   └── neutron_config.yml
    │   ├── nic_mappings.yml
    │   ├── server_groups.yml
    │   ├── server_roles.yml
    │   ├── servers.yml
    │   ├── swift
    │   │   └── rings.yml
    │   └── octavia
    │       └── octavia_config.yml
    ├── README.html
    └── README.md</codeblock>
    </section>
    <section><title>Network/Subnet specification</title>
      <p>The elements required in the input model for you to define a network are: </p><ul>
        <li>name </li>
        <li>network_type </li>
        <li>physical_network</li>
      </ul> Elements that are optional when defining a network are: <ul>
        <li>segmentation_id </li>
        <li>shared </li>
      </ul> Required elements for the subnet definition are: <ul>
        <li>cidr</li>
      </ul> Optional elements for the subnet definition are: <ul>
        <li>allocation_pools which will require start and end addresses </li>
        <li>host_routes which will require a destination and nexthop </li>
        <li>gateway_ip </li>
        <li>no_gateway </li>
        <li>enable-dhcp </li>
      </ul> NOTE: Only IPv4 is supported at the present time. </section>
    <section>
      <title>Network details</title>
      <p>The following table outlines the network values to be set, and what they represent.</p>
      <table frame="all" rowsep="1" colsep="1" id="table_lnv_y5n_2v">
        <tgroup cols="4">
          <colspec colname="c1" colnum="1" colwidth="1.02*"/>
          <colspec colname="c2" colnum="2" colwidth="1*"/>
          <colspec colname="c3" colnum="3" colwidth="1.05*"/>
          <colspec colname="c4" colnum="4" colwidth="1.72*"/>
          <thead>
            <row>
              <entry>Attribute</entry>
              <entry>Required/optional</entry>
              <entry>Allowed Values</entry>
              <entry>Usage</entry>
            </row>
          </thead>
          <tbody>
            <row>
              <entry>name</entry>
              <entry>Required</entry>
              <entry/>
              <entry/>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>network_type</entry>
              <entry>Required</entry>
              <entry>flat, vlan, vxlan</entry>
              <entry>The type of desired network</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>physical_network</entry>
              <entry>Required</entry>
              <entry>Valid</entry>
              <entry>Name of physical network that is overlayed with the virtual network</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>segmentation_id</entry>
              <entry>Optional</entry>
              <entry>vlan or vxlan ranges</entry>
              <entry>VLAN id for vlan or tunnel id for vxlan</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>shared</entry>
              <entry>Optional</entry>
              <entry>True</entry>
              <entry>Shared by all projects or private to a single project</entry>
            </row>
          </tbody>
        </tgroup>
      </table>
    </section>
    <section>
      <p>The following table outlines the subnet values to be set, and what they represent. </p>
      <title>Subnet details</title>
      <table frame="all" rowsep="1" colsep="1" id="table_pzw_3wn_2v">
        <tgroup cols="4">
          <colspec colnum="1" colname="col1"/>
          <colspec colnum="2" colname="col2"/>
          <colspec colnum="3" colname="col3"/>
          <colspec colnum="4" colname="col4"/>
          <thead>
            <row>
              <entry>Attribute</entry>
              <entry>Req/Opt</entry>
              <entry>Allowed Values</entry>
              <entry>Usage</entry>
            </row>
          </thead>
          <tbody>
            <row>
              <entry>cidr</entry>
              <entry>Required</entry>
              <entry>Valid CIDR range</entry>
              <entry>e.g. 172.30.0.0/24</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>allocation_pools</entry>
              <entry>Optional</entry>
              <entry>See allocation_pools table below</entry>
              <entry> </entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>host_routes</entry>
              <entry>Optional</entry>
              <entry>See host_routes table below</entry>
              <entry> </entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>gateway_ip</entry>
              <entry>Optional</entry>
              <entry>Valid IP addr</entry>
              <entry>Subnet gateway to other nets</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>no_gateway</entry>
              <entry>Optional</entry>
              <entry>True</entry>
              <entry>No distribution of gateway</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>enable-dhcp</entry>
              <entry>Optional</entry>
              <entry>True</entry>
              <entry>Enable dhcp for this subnet</entry>
            </row>
          </tbody>
        </tgroup>
      </table>
    </section>
    <section>
      <title>ALLOCATION_POOLS details</title>
      <p>The following table explains allocation pool settings.</p>
      <table frame="all" rowsep="1" colsep="1" id="table_h5p_5wn_2v">
        <tgroup cols="4">
          <colspec colnum="1" colname="col1"/>
          <colspec colnum="2" colname="col2"/>
          <colspec colnum="3" colname="col3"/>
          <colspec colnum="4" colname="col4"/>
          <thead>
            <row>
              <entry>Attribute</entry>
              <entry>Req/Opt</entry>
              <entry>Allowed Values</entry>
              <entry>Usage</entry>
            </row>
          </thead>
          <tbody>
            <row>
              <entry>start</entry>
              <entry>Required</entry>
              <entry>Valid IP addr</entry>
              <entry>First ip address in pool</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>end</entry>
              <entry>Required</entry>
              <entry>Valid IP addr</entry>
              <entry>Last ip address in pool</entry>
            </row>
          </tbody>
        </tgroup>
      </table>
    </section>
    <section>
      <title>HOST_ROUTES details</title>
      <p>The following table explains host route settings.</p>
      <table frame="all" rowsep="1" colsep="1" id="table_gfj_dxn_2v">
        <tgroup cols="4">
          <colspec colnum="1" colname="col1"/>
          <colspec colnum="2" colname="col2"/>
          <colspec colnum="3" colname="col3"/>
          <colspec colnum="4" colname="col4"/>
          <thead>
            <row>
              <entry>Attribute</entry>
              <entry>Req/Opt</entry>
              <entry>Allowed Values</entry>
              <entry>Usage</entry>
            </row>
          </thead>
          <tbody>
            <row>
              <entry>destination</entry>
              <entry>Required</entry>
              <entry>Valid CIDR</entry>
              <entry>Destination subnet</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>nexthop</entry>
              <entry>Required</entry>
              <entry>Valid IP addr</entry>
              <entry>Hop to take to destination subnet</entry>
            </row>
          </tbody>
        </tgroup>
      </table>
      <note>Multiple destination/nexthop may be used</note>
    </section>
    <section><title>Examples</title><p>The following examples show the configuration file settings
        for Neutron and Octavia.</p><p><b>Octavia configuration</b></p><p>This file defines the
        mapping. It doesn't need to be edited unless you want to change the name of your
        VLAN.</p><p>Path:
          <codeph>~/helion/my_cloud/definition/data/octavia/octavia_config.yml</codeph></p><codeblock>---
  product:
    version: 2

  configuration-data:
    - name: OCTAVIA-CONFIG-CP1
      services:
        - octavia
      data:
        amp_network_name: OCTAVIA-MGMT-NET</codeblock><p><b>Neutron
          configuration</b></p><p>Input your network configuration information for your provider
        VLANs in <codeph>neutron_config.yml</codeph> found here:
        </p><codeph>~/helion/my_cloud/definition/data/neutron/</codeph>.<codeblock>---
  product:
    version: 2

  configuration-data:
    - name:  NEUTRON-CONFIG-CP1
      services:
        - neutron
      data:
        neutron_provider_networks:
        - name: OCTAVIA-MGMT-NET
          provider:
            - network_type: vlan
              physical_network: physnet1
              segmentation_id: 2754
          cidr: 10.13.189.0/24
          no_gateway:  True
          enable_dhcp: True
          allocation_pools:
            - start: 10.13.189.4
              end: 10.13.189.252
          host_routes:
            # route to MANAGEMENT-NET
            - destination: 10.13.111.128/26
              nexthop:  10.13.189.5</codeblock>
    </section>
    <section>
      <title>Implementing your changes</title>
      <ol>
        <li>Commit the changes to git:
          <codeblock>git add -A
git commit -a -m "configuring provider network"</codeblock></li>
        <li>Run the configuration processor:
          <codeblock>cd ~/helion/hos/ansible
ansible-playbook -i hosts/localhost config-processor-run.yml</codeblock></li>
        <li>Update your deployment directory:
          <codeblock>cd ~/helion/hos/ansible
ansible-playbook -i hosts/localhost ready-deployment.yml</codeblock></li>
        <li>Then continue with your clean cloud installation.</li>
        <li>If you are only adding a Neutron Provider network to an existing model, then run the
          neutron-reconfigure.yml
          playbook:<codeblock>cd ~/scratch/ansible/next/hos/ansible
ansible-playbook -i hosts/verb_hosts neutron-reconfigure.yml</codeblock></li>
      </ol>
    </section>
  </body>
</topic>
