<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="qnap_es_helion_integration">
    <title><ph conkeyref="HOS-conrefs/product-title"/>Integrating QNAP Enterprise Storage NAS</title>
    <body>
        <section>
            <title>Notices</title>
            <p>
                <ul id="ul_plv_w2d_bx">
                    <li>This manual provides detailed instructions for using the QNAP Enterprise
                        Storage NAS.</li>
                    <li>The QNAP Enterprise Storage NAS is hereafter referred to as the ES NAS or
                        the NAS.</li>
                    <li>This manual provides the description of all the functions of the ES
                        NAS.</li>
                    <li>This manual assumes that <keyword keyref="kw-hos"/> is already fully deployed.</li>
                </ul>
            </p>            
        </section>
        <section id="section_sgg_2fd_bx">
            <title>Legal Notices</title>
            <p>All the features, functionality, and other product specifications are subject to
                change without prior notice or obligation. Information contained herein is subject
                to change without notice. QNAP and the QNAP logo are trademarks of QNAP Systems,
                Inc. All other brands and product names referred to are trademarks of their
                respective holders. Further, the ® or ™ symbols are not used in the text.</p>
            <p/>
            <p/>
        </section>
        <section id="section_gsn_hfd_bx">
            <title>Disclaimer</title>
            <p>Information in this document is provided in connection with QNAP® products. No
                license, express or implied, by estoppels or otherwise, to any intellectual property
                rights is granted by this document. Except as provided in QNAP's terms and
                conditions of sale for such products, QNAP Assumes no liability whatsoever, and QNAP
                disclaims any express or implied warranty, relating to sale and/or use of QNAP
                products including liability or warranties relating to fitness for a particular
                purpose, merchantability, or infringement of any patent, copyright or other
                intellectual property right.</p>
            <p/>
            <p/>
        </section>                
        <p/>
        <p/>
    </body>
</topic>
