<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="ceph_overview">
    <title><ph conkeyref="HOS-conrefs/product-title"/>Ceph Overview</title>
    <body>
        <p conkeyref="HOS-conrefs/applies-to"/>
        <section><p>Ceph is an open source, scalable, software-defined storage (SDS) platform that
                provides block and object storage with unified management.</p><p>The <keyword
                    keyref="kw-hos-phrase"/> Ceph Storage Solution provides an unified, scalable,
                and stable storage solution for the management of the HPE Helion OpenStack Volume
                Storage (Cinder persistent Volumes) service. </p>For more information about
            installation, configuration, and integration between <keyword keyref="kw-hos-phrase"/>
            and Ceph Firefly 0.80.7 running on the hlinux kernel 3.14.44-1, see <xref
                href="../../installation/configure_ceph.dita"/>.<p><keyword keyref="kw-hos"/>
                introduces the concept of cloud models, where the user can modify the YAML to
                provide the required configuration based on their environment. To deploy Ceph, and
                make configuration changes, you must modify the cloud input model files related to
                Ceph.</p><p>You can implementing the input model and perform the following Ceph activities:<ul>
                    <li><xref href="../../installation/configure_ceph.dita"/></li>
                    <li><xref href="adding_new_osd_node.dita"/></li>
                    <li><xref href="adding_new_monitor_node.dita"/></li>
                    <li><xref href="deploy_monitor_stand_alone_node.dita"/></li>
                    <li><xref href="defining_monitor_resource.dita"/></li>
                    <li><xref href="reconfigure_ceph_services.dita"/></li>
                    <li><xref href="remove_osd_node.dita"/></li>
                    <li><xref href="remove_monitor_node.dita"/></li>
                    <li><xref href="ceph_operation.dita"/></li>
                </ul></p></section>
        <note>Ceph upgrade is a built-in, integral part of the HPE Helion Lifecycle Management
            upgrade, and is in line with rest of the supported services. In <keyword
                keyref="kw-hos-phrase"/>, the supported version of Ceph is Firefly 0.80.7. In
            upcoming <keyword keyref="kw-hos"/> releases, new versions of Ceph will be supported and
            the cluster can be upgraded to new releases. You should not use other releases of Ceph
            (for example, Firefly 0.80.10) and run Ceph upgrade verbs to upgrade the cluster. Doing
            this might cause a cluster stability issue.</note>
        <section id="bootable"><title>Efficiently Creating Bootable Volumes when using Ceph for
                Glance and Cinder</title>
            <p>By default, creation of multiple bootable volumes from an image in Glance can involve
                significant data movement. When Ceph is used as a backend for both Glance and
                Cinder, performance of these operations can be improved significantly. Glance can be
                configured (using the v2 API) to pass image locations to its client, and the Ceph
                backend can be configured to read the image locations and use an efficient Ceph
                clone operation to avoid data copies.</p>
            <note>Image locations can only be made available with the Glance v2 API, which is not
                the default.</note>
            <p>Steps to utilize this feature:</p>
            <ol>
                <li>Log in to the lifecycle manager.</li>
                <li>Edit the <codeph>~/helion/my_cloud/config/cinder/cinder.conf.j2</codeph> file
                    and add the following line: <codeblock>glance_api_version = 2</codeblock></li>
                <li>Edit the <codeph>~/helion/my_cloud/config/glance/glance-api.conf.j2</codeph>
                    file to uncomment and change the following line: <p>from:</p>
                    <codeblock>#show_image_direct_url = False</codeblock>
                    <p>to:</p>
                    <codeblock>show_image_direct_url = True</codeblock></li>
                <li>Add the following line to the
                        <codeph>~/helion/my_cloud/config/glance/glance-api.conf.j2</codeph> file:
                    <codeblock>show_multiple_locations = True</codeblock></li>
                <li>Commit your configuration to the <xref href="../../installation/using_git.dita"
                        >local git repo</xref>, as follows:
                    <codeblock>cd ~/helion/hos/ansible
git add -A
git commit -m "My config or other commit message"</codeblock></li>
                <li>Run the configuration processor:
                    <codeblock>cd ~/helion/hos/ansible
ansible-playbook -i hosts/localhost config-processor-run.yml</codeblock></li>
                <li>Use the playbook below to create a deployment directory:
                    <codeblock>cd ~/helion/hos/ansible
ansible-playbook -i hosts/localhost ready-deployment.yml</codeblock></li>
                <li>Change to the deployment directory and run both the Glanca and Cinder
                    reconfigure playbooks:
                    <codeblock>cd ~/scratch/ansible/next/hos/ansible
ansible-playbook -i hosts/verb_hosts glance-reconfigure.yml
ansible-playbook -i hosts/verb_hosts cinder-reconfigure.yml</codeblock></li>
            </ol>
        </section>
    </body>
</topic>
