<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topic_pgq_mnw_dt">
    <title><ph conkeyref="HOS-conrefs/product-title"/>Understanding the Freezer Agent</title>
    <body><!--not tested-->
        <p conkeyref="HOS-conrefs/applies-to"/>
        <section><title>Backing up your Data</title></section>
        <section><title>Introduction </title>
            
            <p>The freezer-agent is a tool that is used to take manual backups and perform manual restores. 
                
                It can be run from any place you want to take a backup (or do a restore) because all HPE Helion OpenStack nodes have the freezer-agent installedon them. To use it, you should run as root.</p>
            
            
            
            <p>For <keyword keyref="kw-hos-phrase"/>,
                you must follow these steps to perform backups: <ol>
                    <li>Define what you want to backup.</li>
                    <li>Define a mode for that backup. The following modes are available: <ul>
                            <li>FS (filesystem) (default)</li>
                            <li>MySQL</li>
                            <li>SQL Server</li>
                            <li>Mongo</li>
                        </ul><note>It is recommended that you use snapshots if the mode is MySQL,
                            SQL Server, or Mongo.</note></li> 
                    <li>Define whether to use a snapshot in the file system for the backup:<ul>
                            <li>In Unix systems LVM is used (when available). </li>
                            <li>In Windows systems virtual shadow copies are used.</li>
                        </ul></li>
                    <li>Define a storage media in a job from the following list: <ul>
                            <li>Swift (requires OpenStack credentials)(default)</li>
                            <li>Local (no credentials required)</li>
                            <li>SSH (no credentials required) (not implemented on Windows)</li>
                        </ul></li>
                </ol></p>
        </section>
        <section><title>Basic Configuration for Backups</title>
            <p>There are several mandatory parameters you need to specify in order to execute a
                backup. Note storage is optional: <ul>
                    <li>action (backup by default)</li>
                    <li>mode (fs by default)</li>
                    <li>path-to-backup</li>
                    <li>backup-name</li>
                    <li>container (Swift container or local path)</li>
                    <li>storage is not mandatory. It is Swift by default</li>
                </ul></p> For <keyword keyref="kw-hos-phrase"/>, you can create a backup using only
            mandatory values, as in the following example:
            <codeblock>- freezer-agent --action backup --mode fs --storage swift --path-to-backup /home/user/tmp --container tmp_backups --backup-name backup1</codeblock>
            To create a configuration file for this same backup, the file would look like the one
            below. Note that in the config file, the parameter names such as backup-name will use
            underscores instead of dashes. Thus backup-name as used in the CLI will be backup_name
            when used in the config file. Note also that where you use -- in the CLI, such as
            --mode, you do not use the -- in the config
            file.<codeblock>
  {
    "job_actions": [
        {
            "freezer_action": {
                "action": "backup",
                "mode": "fs",
                "backup_name": "backup1",
                "path_to_backup": "/home/user/tmp",
                "container": "tmp_backups"
            },
            "max_retries": 3,
            "max_retries_interval": 60
        }
    ],
    "job_schedule": {
        "schedule_interval": "24 hours"
    },
    "description": "backup for tmp dir"
  }
</codeblock>
            In this configuration file (JSON), the freezer command is wrapped in the
            "freezer_action" key. For <keyword keyref="kw-hos-phrase"/>, we can define the schedule
            rules that this job will follow (only available through the configuration file) and a
            brief description of the job. </section>
        <section><title>Restoring your Data</title><p> For <keyword keyref="kw-hos-phrase"/>, 
            you must do the following in order to restore data after a
                backup: <ol>
                    <li>Select a backup to restore.</li>
                    <li>Define a mode for the restore: The following modes are available:<ul>
                            <li>FS (filesystem) (default)</li>
                            <li>MySQL</li>
                            <li>SQL Server</li>
                            <li>Mongo</li>
                        </ul></li>
                    <li>If the restore involves an application (such as MySQL) remember to shut down
                        the application or service and start it again after the restore.</li>
                </ol></p></section>
        <section>
            <title>Basic Configuration for Restoring</title>
            <p>To restore from a backup, note that in some cases you must stop the service (for
                instance, MySQL) before the restore.</p>
            <p>There are several parameters that are required and there are some optional parameters
                used to execute a restore: <ul>
                    <li>action (backup by default)</li>
                    <li>mode (fs by default)</li>
                    <li>restore-abs-path</li>
                    <li>backup-name</li>
                    <li>container (Swift container or local path)</li>
                    <li>restore-from-host</li>
                    <li>restore-from-date (optional)</li>
                    <li>storage  is not mandatory. It is Swift by default</li>
                </ul></p>
            <p>You can create a restore using mandatory values, as in the following example:
                <codeblock>  - freezer-agent --action restore --mode fs --storage swift --restore-abs-path /home/user/tmp --container tmp_backups --backup-name backup1 --restore-from-host ubuntu</codeblock></p>
            <p> To create a configuration file for this same restore, the file would look like the
                one below. Note that in the config file, the parameter names such as backup-name
                will use underscores instead of dashes. Thus backup-name as used in the CLI will be
                backup_name when used in the config file. Note also that where you use -- in the
                CLI, such as --mode, you do not use the -- in the config file. This is the same
                format as used above for backup
                configuration.<codeblock>
  {
    "job_actions": [
        {
            "freezer_action": {
                "action": "restore",
                "mode": "fs",
                "backup_name": "backup1",
                "restore_abs_path": "/home/user/tmp",
                "container": "tmp_backups",
                "restore_from_host": "ubuntu"
            },
            "max_retries": 3,
            "max_retries_interval": 60
        }
    ],
    "description": "backup for tmp dir"
  }
</codeblock></p>
        </section>
        <p/>
    </body>
</topic>
