<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topic_bxm_gxr_st">
  <title><ph conkeyref="HOS-conrefs/product-title"/>Default Backups</title>
  <body>
    <p conkeyref="HOS-conrefs/applies-to"/>
    <p>By default, the following are automatically backed up: <ul>
        <li>All important information on the lifecycle manager</li>
        <li>MySQL database</li>
        <li>Swift rings</li>
      </ul></p>
    <p>The following services will be effectively backed up. In other words, the data needed to
      restore the services is backed up. The critical data that will be backed up are the databases
      and the configuration related files. Note the data that is not backed up per service:<ul>
        <li>Ceilometer. However, there is no backup of metrics data</li>
        <li>Cinder. However, there is no backup of the volumes</li>
        <li>Glance. However, there is no backup of the images</li>
        <li>Heat</li>
        <li>Horizon</li>
        <li>Keystone</li>
        <li>Neutron</li>
        <li>Nova. However, there is no backup of the images</li>
        <li>Swift. However, there is no backup of the objects. Swift has its own high availability
          redundancy. Swift rings are backed up. Although Swift will rebuild the rings itself,
          restoring from backup is faster.</li>
        <li>Operations Console</li>
        <li>Monasca. However, there is no backup of the metrics</li>
      </ul></p>
    <section/>
    
    <section>
      <title>Limitations</title>
      The following limitations apply to Freezer Backups in HPE Helion OpenStack:
      <p>
        <ul>
          <li>Recovery of the following services (or cloud topologies) will be partially backed up.
            They will need additional data (other than the data stored in MySQL) to return to fully functional.<ul>
              <li>ESX Cloud</li>
              <li>Ceph Cloud</li>
              <li>Network services - LBaaS and VPNaaS</li>
            </ul></li>
          <li>Logging data (that is, log files).</li>
          <li>VMs and volumes are not currently backed up.</li>
        </ul>
      </p>
    </section>
  </body>
</topic>
