<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="configobj_nicmappings">
    <title><ph conkeyref="HOS-conrefs/product-title"/>NIC Mappings</title>
    <body>
        <p conkeyref="HOS-conrefs/applies-to"/>


    <p>The <uicontrol>nic-mappings</uicontrol> configuration object is used to ensure that the
        network device name used by the operating system always maps to the same physical device. A
        <uicontrol>nic-mapping</uicontrol> is associated to a <uicontrol>server</uicontrol> in the
        server definition file. (see <xref keyref="configobj_servers">Servers</xref>). Devices
        should be named <codeph>hedN</codeph> to avoid name clashes with any other devices
        configured during the operating system install as well as any interfaces that are not being
        managed by <keyword keyref="kw-hos"/>. An excerpt from <codeph>nic_mappings.yml</codeph>
        illustrates:</p>
    <codeblock>---
        product:
        version: 2
        
        nic-mappings:
        
        - name: HP-DL360-4PORT
        physical-ports:
        - logical-name: hed1
        type: simple-port
        bus-address: "0000:07:00.0"
        
        - logical-name: hed2
        type: simple-port
        bus-address: "0000:08:00.0"
        
        - logical-name: hed3
        type: multi-port
        bus-address: "0000:09:00.0"
        port-attributes:
        port-num: 0
        
        - logical-name: hed4
        type: multi-port
        bus-address: "0000:09:00.0"
        port-attributes:
        port-num: 1</codeblock>
    <p>Each entry in the <uicontrol>nic-mappings</uicontrol> list has the following
        attributes:</p>
    <p>
        <table frame="all" rowsep="1" colsep="1" id="nic_mappings">
            <tgroup cols="2">
                <colspec colname="c1" colnum="1"/>
                <colspec colname="c2" colnum="2"/>
                <thead>
                    <row>
                        <entry>Key</entry>
                        <entry>Value Description</entry>
                    </row>
                </thead>
                <tbody>
                    <row>
                        <entry>name</entry>
                        <entry>An administrator-defined name for the mapping. This name may be used in a
                            server definition (see <xref keyref="configobj_servers">Servers</xref>) to
                            apply the mapping to that server.</entry>
                    </row>
                    <row>
                        <entry>physical-ports</entry>
                        <entry>A list containing device name to address mapping information.</entry>
                    </row>
                </tbody>
            </tgroup>
        </table>
    </p>
    <p>Each entry in the <uicontrol>physical-ports</uicontrol> list has the following
        attributes:</p>
    <p>
        <table frame="all" rowsep="1" colsep="1" id="physical_ports">
            <tgroup cols="2">
                <colspec colname="c1" colnum="1"/>
                <colspec colname="c2" colnum="2"/>
                <thead>
                    <row>
                        <entry>Key</entry>
                        <entry>Value Description</entry>
                    </row>
                </thead>
                <tbody>
                    <row>
                        <entry>logical-name</entry>
                        <entry>The network device name that will be associated with the device at the
                            specified <i>bus-address</i>. The logical-name specified here can be used as a
                            device name in network interface model definitions. (see <xref
                                href="#input_model/co_interfacemodels">Interface Models</xref>)</entry>
                    </row>
                    <row>
                        <entry>type</entry>
                        <entry>The type of port. <keyword keyref="kw-hos-phrase-21"/> supports "simple-port" and
                            "multi-port"; <keyword keyref="kw-hos-phrase-20"/> only supports "simple-port"; other port types may be added in a future release.</entry>
                    </row>
                    <row>
                        <entry>bus-address</entry>
                        <entry>PCI bus address of the port. Enclose the bus address in quotation marks so
                            yaml does not misinterpret the embedded colon (:) characters. See <xref
                                href="installation/preinstall_checklist.dita#preinstall_checklist/vlaninfo"
                                >Pre-Install Checklist - VLAN Info</xref> for details on how to determine this
                            value.</entry>
                    </row>
                    <row>
                        <entry>port-attributes (required if type is <codeph>multi-port</codeph>)</entry>
                        <entry>Provides a list of attributes for the physical port. The current
                            implementation supports only one attribute, "port-num", which is used to identify
                            individual ports on network adapters that support more than one port on the same
                            <codeph>bus-address</codeph>. See <xref
                                href="installation/preinstall_checklist.dita#preinstall_checklist/vlaninfo"
                                >Pre-Install Checklist - VLAN Info</xref> for details on how to determine this
                            value.
                            <p conkeyref="HOS-conrefs/applies-to-21"/>
                        </entry>
                    </row>
                </tbody>
            </tgroup>
        </table>
    </p>


    </body>
</topic>

