<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?> 
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="manage_compute_instances">
    <title><ph conkeyref="HOS-conrefs/product-title"/>Manage Compute Instances</title>
    <body>
<p>As your deployment grows and changes, you may need to add more compute hosts to increase your capacity for VMs, or delete a host to reallocate hardware for a different use. To accomplish these tasks, in previous versions of Helion OpenStack you had to use the command line to update configuration files and run ansible playbooks. Now Operations Console (Ops Console) provides a graphical interface for you to complete the same tasks quickly using menu items in the console.</p>
        
        <note type="attention">In order to use Ops Console, you need to have the correct permissions and know the URL or VIP connected to Ops console during installation. For steps on how to complete these tasks, see <xref href="../opsconsole_overview.dita">Using the Operations Console.</xref></note>
        
        <section id="ops_create_hosts">
            <title>Creating Hosts</title>
            <p>If you need to create additional compute hosts for more virtual machine capacity, you can do this easily on the Compute Hosts screen.</p>
            <p>To add a compute host:</p>
            <ol>
                <li>To open Operations Console, in a browser enter either the URL or Virtual IP
                    connected to Ops Console. <p>For
                    example:</p><codeblock>https://myhelion.test:9095
https://VIP:9095</codeblock></li>
                <li>On the <b>Home</b> screen, click the <b>Configure Host</b> tab.</li>
                <li>At the top of the screen, next to <b>Create Host</b>, click the down arrow.</li>
                <li></li>
            </ol>
        </section>
        
        <section id="ops_active">
            
        </section>
        
       <section id="ops_deactivate">
           <p>If you need to scale down the size of your current deployment to use the hardware for other purposes, you may want to delete a compute host. Or if you have multiple compute nodes and for debugging reasons you want to disable them all except one, you may need to deactivate and then activate a compute host. This can be done easily in the Operations Console.</p>
               
           
       </section> 
        
        <section>
            <title>For More Information</title>
            <p>For more information on how to complete these tasks through the command line, see the following topics:</p>
            <ul>
                <li><xref href="../adding_node.dita">Increasing Capacity by Adding Nodes</xref></li>
                <li><xref href="../removing_node.dita">Removing Nodes</xref></li>
            </ul>
        </section>
        
    </body>  
</topic>
