<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="solidfire_overview">
  <title>Integrating with SolidFire Storage</title>
  <body>
    <p>The SolidFire storage system is an interconnection of hardware and software designed for
      large-scale, multi-tenant cloud environements where the performance, quailty-of-service and
      scale present different challoenges than those in a traditional enterprise deployment.
      SolidFire relies on Cinder, an OpenStack service that manages the creation, attaching, and
      detaching of block storage volumes between a storage system like SolidFire and different host
      servers.</p>
    <p>If you already have SolidFire deployed in your environment and want to integrate its storage
      with Helion OpenStack, you can use this document to understand how testers have successfully
      completed the process. The process involves meeting all of the hardware and network
      requirements, and configuring SolidFire as a single back-end. You will also be creating a new
      SolidFire cluster section. Additionally, this topic also provides sample test scenarios that
      have been used to verify integration with Helion OpenStack.</p>
    <p>When discussing clusters and nodes in context with a SolidFire system, this documentation uses the following definitions:</p>
      <dl>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>Cluster</dt>
          <dd>A cluster is the hub of a SolidFire Storage System and is made up of a collection of nodes. It is recommended that you have five or more nodes. However, for SolidFire storage efficiencies to be implemented correctly, you must have at least four nodes in a cluster. A cluster appears on the network as a single logical group and can then be accessed as block storage.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>Node</dt>
          <dd>Each node is a collection of Solid State Drives (SSD). Each storage node comes with CPU, networking, cache, and storage resources. The storage node resources are pooled into a cluster of nodes.</dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl>
      
      <p>The following operations supported by SolidFire were confirmed to also be supported by
      Helion OpenStack.</p>
    
    <ul>
      <li><b>Create, delete, attach, and detach volumes</b></li>
      <li><b>Copy an image to a volume</b></li>
      <li><b>Clone a volume</b></li>
      <li><b>Extend a volume</b></li>
      <li><b>Transfer a volume between tenants</b></li>
      <li><b>Get volume statistics (volume properties)</b></li>
      <li><b>Create, list, and delete volume snapshots</b></li>
      <li><b>Create a volume from a snapshot</b></li>
    </ul>
    <p>To integrate the SolidFire storage system with Helion OpenStack:</p>
    <ol>
      <li><xref href="SolidFire_preinstall.dita">Meet all pre-installation requirements</xref></li> 
      <li><xref href="SolidFire_install.dita"/></li>
<li><xref href="SolidFire_verify.dita">Verify SolidFire Integration</xref></li></ol>
 </body>
</topic>
