<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--Edit status: not edited-->
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="alarm_explorer">
    <title><ph conkeyref="HOS-conrefs/product-title"/>Alarm Explorer</title>
    <abstract><shortdesc outputclass="hdphidden">This page displays the alarms for all services and appliances. By default, alarms are
        sorted by most recent and in a table format.</shortdesc></abstract>
    <body>
        <p conkeyref="HOS-conrefs/applies-to"/>
        <section>
            <title>Create Alarm Definition</title>
            <p>Opens the Create Alarm Definition Screen. Here you can define the following properties of a new alarm:
                <dl>
                    <dlentry>
                        <dt>Details</dt>
                        <dd>Name, Description</dd>
                    </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                    <dt>Notifications and Severity</dt>
                    <dd>Severity, Notification Methods</dd>
                </dlentry>
                    <dlentry>
                        <dt>Alarm Expression</dt>
                        <dd>Function, Metric, Relational Operator, Value, Dimension</dd>
                    </dlentry>
                    
                </dl></p>
        </section>
        <section>
            <title>Search and Sort</title>
            <p>The search bar allows you to filter the alarms you want to view. Type and Status are
                examples of alarm criteria that can be specified. Additionally, you can filter by
                typing in text similar to searching by keywords.</p>
            <p>The checkbox allows you to select (or deselect) a group of alarms and apply a single
                condition on the selected alarms.</p>
            <p>You can display the alarms by grid, list or table views by selecting the
                corresponding icons next to the <uicontrol>Sort By</uicontrol> control.</p>
            <p>The <uicontrol>Sort By</uicontrol> control contains a drop-down list of ways by which
                you can sort the alarms. Alternatively, you can also sort using the column headers
                in the table.</p>
            <ul>
                <li><uicontrol>Sort by Dimension</uicontrol> displays the alarms by device, hostname
                    and service which they belong to.</li>
                <li><uicontrol>Sort by Alarm ID</uicontrol> displays the alarms UUID.</li>
                <li><uicontrol>Sort by State</uicontrol> displays the alarms by reported status of
                    <b>OK</b>, <b>Warning</b>, <b>Error</b>, and <b>Unknown</b></li>
                <li><uicontrol>Sort by Service</uicontrol> displays the name of the service that triggers the alarm.</li>
            </ul>
        </section>
        <section>
            <title>Alarm Table</title>
            <p>Each row has a checkbox to allow you to select multiple alarms and set the same
                condition on them.</p>
            <p>The <b>State</b> column displays a graphical indicator that shows the state of each
                alarm:</p>
            <ul>
                <li>Green square (or green indicator): OK. Good operating state.</li>
                <li>Yellow diamond (or yellow indicator): Warning. Low severity, not requiring
                    immediate action.</li>
                <li>Red ball (or red indicator): Alarm. Varying severity levels and must be
                    addressed.</li>
                <li>Gray square (or gray indicator): Unknown.</li>
            </ul>
            <p>The <b>Alarm</b> column identifies the alarm by the name it was given when it was
                originally created. </p>
            <p>The <b>Last Check</b> column displays the date and time the most recent occurrence of
                the alarm.</p>
            <p>The <b>Dimension</b> column describes the components to check in order to clear the
                alarm.</p>
            <p>The last column, depicted by three dots, reveals an <b>Actions</b> menu that allows
                you to choose:</p>
            <ul>
                <li><uicontrol>View Details</uicontrol>, which opens a separate window that shows
                    all the information from the table view and the alarm history. You also have the ability to add a comment to the alarm. You cannot edit the alarm definition from this screen. You can click <b>View Alarm Definition</b> to open the Edit Alarm Definitino page.</li>
                <li><uicontrol>View Alarm Definition</uicontrol>, which opens a separate window that allows
                    you to directly edit the alarm details.</li>
                <li><uicontrol>Suggested Resolutions</uicontrol>, which opens a separate window displaying the HPE Helion OpenStack <b>Alarm Resolution Procedures</b> documentation.</li>
                <li><uicontrol>Delete</uicontrol>, which opens a separate window asking you to <b>Confirm</b> or <b>Cancel</b> the deletion. You are shown how many alarms will be deleted and warns you that this action cannot be undone.</li>
            </ul>
        </section>
    </body>
</topic>
