<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="installation_prerequisites">
    <title><u>Prerequisites</u></title>
    <body>
        <section id="section_bg5_qy4_jx">
            <p><b>HPE Helion OpenStack</b></p>
            <p><keyword keyref="kw-hos"/> must be deployed fully before performing the Cisco ACI
                integration. Find instructions for deploying Helion OpenStack 3.0 <xref
                    href="http://docs.hpcloud.com/#3.x/helion/installation/installing_kvm.html"
                    format="html" scope="external">here</xref>.</p>
            <p>On the lifecycle manager, the apache service must be listening for HTTP requests on
                port 79. Further, <codeph>/opt/hlm_packager</codeph> must be set as the document
                root. This is the default and automatic configuration for the Helion OpenStack
                deployment.</p>
            <p>Every Neutron Open vSwitch server (Neutron controllers and Nova compute nodes) must
                have the apt service configured to use the following sources.<ul id="ul_r51_1z4_jx">
                    <li>deb [arch=amd64] http://HLM_IP:79/hlm/hlinux cattleprod main contrib
                        non-free</li>
                    <li>deb [arch=i386] http://HLM_IP:79/hlm/cmc32 cattleprod main</li>
                </ul></p>
            <p>Replace <codeph>HLM_IP</codeph> with the IP address of your lifecycle manager. The
                preceding apt sources are configured automatically (in
                    <codeph>/etc/apt/sources.list.d</codeph>) as part of the Helion OpenStack cloud
                deployment, and only require manual configuration if the defaults have been changed
                since deployment.</p>
        </section>
        <section id="section_u2q_ry4_jx">
            <p><b>Network</b></p>
            <p>In addition to the standard network configuration described in <xref
                    href="http://docs.hpcloud.com/#3.x/helion/installation/preinstall_checklist.html"
                    format="html" scope="external">Helion OpenStack network configuration</xref>, a
                physical network port on each Nova compute node must be plugged into the Cisco ACI
                fabric. The command <codeph>sudo lldpcli show neighbors</codeph> should reveal a
                router/leaf from the Cisco ACI fabric.<note><codeph>lldpcli</codeph> must be
                    manually installed using the <codeph>apt</codeph> package manager in order to
                    run the <codeph>lldpcli</codeph> command.</note></p>
            <p>All of your Neutron controller nodes must be able to communicate with the APIC. Run
                the following command on your Neutron controller nodes to fetch the APIC login
                interface (the following command assumes that the APIC IP address is 10.105.1.10.
                Substitiute the IP address of your APIC if
                necessary).<codeblock>curl -k https://10.105.1.10</codeblock></p>
            <p>
                <note>Some Cisco third-party software is not available via the internet, but is
                    provided by offline resources.</note>
                <note>Your lifecycle manager and Neutron controller nodes must have internet access
                    to successfully run the automatic deployment playbook. If necessary, the
                    automatic deployment playbook can make use of an HTTP/HTTPS proxy.</note>
            </p>
            <p>To summarize the prerequisites:<ul id="ul_azx_g1p_jx">
                    <li>Ensure that each Nova compute node has a dedicated network port that is
                        connected to a Cisco ACI leaf.</li>
                    <li>Ensure that each Neutron controller node can communicate with the APIC.</li>
                    <li>Ensure that the lifecycle manager, as well as all Neutron controller nodes
                        have internet connectivity.</li>
                </ul></p>
        </section>
    </body>
</topic>

