<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="installation_caveats">
    <title><u>Caveats</u></title>
    <body>
        <ul id="ul_ezj_lx4_jx">
            <li>While testing integration, Cisco discovered a bug in APIC version 1.1(4e) that
                prevents virtual machines from communicating across the fabric. This bug is not
                present in APIC version 2.0(1m).</li>
            <li>The automatic deployment playbook only supports OpFlex VXLAN or VLAN tunneling on
                the first physical port that is discovered as connected to APIC. The
                    <codeph>lldpctl</codeph> program supplies information about which port is
                connected to APIC.</li>
            <li>Compute nodes are discovered by <codeph>neutron-cisco-apic-host-agent</codeph>,
                which is installed by the automatic deployment playbook. Consult with your Cisco ACI
                specialist for advanced configurations.</li>
            <li>External networks must first be configured in APIC before attempting to create them
                with Neutron. Consult with your Cisco ACI specialist for assistance. The
                    <codeph>[apic_external_network: &lt;EXT_NET_NAME>]</codeph> Neutron
                configuration section must be added to the bottom of the
                    <codeph>/opt/stack/service/neutron/etc/ml2_conf.ini</codeph> file. Once that
                configuration option is added to the file, the <codeph>neutron-server</codeph>
                service must be restarted on every Neutron controller node.</li>
        </ul>
    </body>
</topic>

