<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="upload_image">
  <title><ph conkeyref="HOS-conrefs/product-title"/>Uploading an Image for Use</title>
  <body>
    <p conkeyref="HOS-conrefs/applies-to"/>
    <section id="about">
      <p>To create a Compute instance, you need to obtain an image that you can use. The <keyword
          keyref="kw-hos"/> lifecycle manager provides an Ansible playbook that will download a
        CirrOS Linux image, and then upload it as a public image to your image repository for use
        across your projects.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="playbook"><title>Running the Playbook</title>
      <p>Use the following command to run this playbook:</p>
      <codeblock>cd ~/scratch/ansible/next/hos/ansible
ansible-playbook -i hosts/verb_hosts glance-cloud-configure.yml -e proxy=&#60;PROXY></codeblock>
      <p>The table below shows the optional switch that you can use as part of this playbook to
        specify environment-specific information:</p>
      <p>
        <table frame="all" rowsep="1" colsep="1" id="ansible2">
          <tgroup cols="2">
            <colspec colname="c1" colnum="1" colwidth="1.0*"/>
            <colspec colname="c2" colnum="2" colwidth="1.0*"/>
            <thead>
              <row>
                <entry>Switch</entry>
                <entry>Description</entry>
              </row>
            </thead>
            <tbody>
              <row>
                <entry>
                  <p><codeph>-e proxy="&lt;proxy_address:port>"</codeph></p>
                </entry>
                <entry>
                  <p>Optional. If your environment requires a proxy for the internet, use this
                    switch to specify the proxy information.</p>
                </entry>
              </row>
            </tbody>
          </tgroup>
        </table>
      </p>
    </section>
    <section id="custom_image"><title>How to Curate Your Own Images</title>
      <p>OpenStack has created a guide to show you how to obtain, create, and modify images that
        will be compatible with your cloud:</p>
      <p><xref href="http://docs.openstack.org/image-guide/content/" scope="external" format="html"
          >OpenStack Virtual Machine Image Guide</xref></p>
    </section>
    <section id="cli"><title>Using the GlanceClient CLI to Create Images</title>
      <p>You can use the GlanceClient on a machine accessible to your cloud or it's also installed
        automatically on your lifecycle manager.</p>
      <p>The GlanceClient allows you to create, update, list, and delete images as well as manage
        your image member lists, which allows you to share access to images across multiple tenants.
        As with most of the OpenStack CLI tools, you can use the <codeph>glance help</codeph>
        command to get a full list of commands as well as their syntax.</p>
      <ol>
        <li>Log in to the lifecycle manager.</li>
        <li>Edit the <codeph>~/helion/my_cloud/config/glance/glance-api.conf.j2</codeph> file and
          add <codeph>http</codeph> to the list of Glance stores in the
            <codeph>[glance_store]</codeph> section as seen below in bold:
          <codeblock>[glance_store]
# List of which store classes and store class locations are
# currently known to glance at startup.
# Deprecated group/name - [DEFAULT]/known_stores
# Existing but disabled stores:
#      glance.store.rbd.Store,
#      glance.store.s3.Store,
#      glance.store.swift.Store,
#      glance.store.sheepdog.Store,
#      glance.store.cinder.Store,
#      glance.store.gridfs.Store,
#      glance.store.vmware_datastore.Store,
stores = {{ glance_stores }}<b>, http</b></codeblock></li>
        <li>Commit your configuration to the <xref href="../installation/using_git.dita">local git
            repo</xref>, as follows:
          <codeblock>cd ~/helion/hos/ansible
git add -A
git commit -m "My config or other commit message"</codeblock></li>
        <li>Run the configuration processor:
          <codeblock>cd ~/helion/hos/ansible
ansible-playbook -i hosts/localhost config-processor-run.yml</codeblock></li>
        <li>Update your deployment directory:
          <codeblock>cd ~/helion/hos/ansible
ansible-playbook -i hosts/localhost ready-deployment.yml</codeblock></li>
        <li>Run the Glance reconfigure playbook:
          <codeblock>cd ~/scratch/ansible/next/hos/ansible
ansible-playbook -i hosts/verb_hosts glance-reconfigure.yml</codeblock></li>
      </ol>
    </section>
  </body>
</topic>
