<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="F5_overview">
  <title>F5 LBaaS Integration</title>
  <body>

    <p conkeyref="HOS-conrefs/applies-to"/>

    <p>Adding F5 Network products to your deployment can provide critical application delivery services consistently across the data center, private cloud, and public cloud. This allows hybrid users to experience the availability and performance they expect.</p>
    <p> F5 Networks BIG-IP product family includes purpose-built hardware, software, and virtualized solutions. Depending on the appliance you use, one or more BIG-IP modules can be added to get the functionality your deployment requires.</p>
<p>Creating an application centered strategy using F5 BIG-IP is supported in all of the following scenarios:</p>
<ul>
  <li>architecting a private cloud</li>
  <li>migrating and re-architecting existing applications to a public cloud IbaaS (load balancing as a service) provider</li>
  <li>moving to Software as a Service (SaaS)</li>
  <li>deploying applications in a hybrid environment</li>
  <li>ensuring business continuity</li>
</ul>
    <note>Keep in mind that flexible licensing options are available, based on where you want to deploy.</note>
    
      <section id="F5_suppOps">
        <title>Supported Operations</title>
        <p>The following operations have been tested and verified to work on a Helion OpenStack Deployment integrated with F5 BIGIP networks.</p>
        <note type="attention">F5 was tested with LBaaS v1 ONLY.</note>
      <table frame="all" rowsep="1" colsep="1" id="table_F5_suppOps">
        <tgroup cols="2">
          <colspec colname="c1" colnum="1" colwidth="1*"/>
          <colspec colname="c2" colnum="2" colwidth="1*"/>
          <thead>
            <row>
              <entry>Operation</entry>
              <entry>Description</entry>
            </row>
          </thead>
          <tbody>
            <row>
              <entry>lb-agent-hosting-pool</entry>
              <entry>Get loadbalancer agent hosting a pool.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>lb-healthmonitor-associate</entry>
              <entry>Create a mapping between a health monitor and a pool.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>lb-healthmonitor-create</entry>
              <entry>Create a health monitor.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>lb-healthmonitor-delete</entry>
              <entry>Delete a given health monitor.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>lb-healthmonitor-disassociate</entry>
              <entry>Remove a mapping from a health monitor to a pool.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>lb-healthmonitor-list</entry>
              <entry>List health monitors that belong to a given tenant.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>lb-healthmonitor-show</entry>
              <entry>Show information of a given health monitor. </entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>lb-healthmonitor-update</entry>
              <entry>Update a given health monitor.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>lb-member-create</entry>
              <entry>Create a member.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>lb-member-delete</entry>
              <entry>Delete a given member.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>lb-member-list</entry>
              <entry>List members that belong to a given tenant.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>lb-member-show</entry>
              <entry>Show information of a given member.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>lb-member-update</entry>
              <entry>Update a given member.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>lb-pool-create</entry>
              <entry>Create a pool.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>lb-pool-delete</entry>
              <entry>Delete a given pool.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>lb-pool-list</entry>
              <entry>List pools that belong to a given tenant.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>lb-pool-list-on-agent</entry>
              <entry>List the pools on a loadbalancer agent.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>lb-pool-show</entry>
              <entry>Show information of a given pool.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>lb-pool-stats</entry>
              <entry>Retrieve stats for a given pool.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>lb-pool-update</entry>
              <entry>Update a given pool.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>lb-vip-create</entry>
              <entry>Create a vip.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>lb-vip-delete</entry>
              <entry>Delete a given vip.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>lb-vip-list</entry>
              <entry>List vips that belong to a given tenant.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>lb-vip-show</entry>
              <entry>Show information of a given vip.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>lb-vip-update</entry>
              <entry>Update a given vip.</entry>
            </row>
          </tbody>
        </tgroup>
      </table>
      </section>
    
          <p>To integrate F5 BIG-IP features into your OpenStack deployment:</p>
 <ol>
      <li><xref href="F5_preinstall_checklist.dita">Complete the F5 Preinstallation Checklist</xref></li>
        <li><xref href="F5_install_driver.dita">Install the F5 Driver and Agent</xref></li>
    </ol>
  </body>
</topic>
