<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="ironic-node-cleaning">
    <title><ph conkeyref="HOS-conrefs/product-title"/>Node Cleaning</title>

    <body><!--not tested-->
        <p conkeyref="HOS-conrefs/applies-to"/>
    <p>Cleaning is the process by which data is removed after a previous tenant has used the node. 
        Cleaning requires use of ironic's agent_ drivers.  It is extremely important to note that if 
        the pxe_ drivers are utilized, no node cleaning operations will occur, and a previous tenant's 
        data could be found on the node.  The same risk of a previous tenant's data possibly can occur 
        if cleaning is explicitly disabled as part of the installation.
    </p>
    
    <p>        
        By default, cleaning attempts to utilize ATA secure erase to wipe the contents of the disk.  
        If secure erase is unavailable, the cleaning functionality built into the Ironic Python Agent 
        falls back to an operation referred to as "shred" where random data is written over the contents 
        of the disk, and then followed up by writing "0"s across the disk.  This can be a time-consuming process.
       </p>
    
    <p> 
        An additional feature of cleaning is the ability to update firmware or potentially assert new hardware 
        configuration, however, this is an advanced feature that must be built into the Ironic Python Agent 
        image. Due to the complex nature of such operations, and the fact that no one size fits all, this 
        requires a custom Ironic Python Agent image to be constructed with an appropriate hardware manager. 
        For more information on hardware managers, see 
        <xref href="http://docs.openstack.org/developer/ironic-python-agent/#hardware-managers" scope="external" format="html"/>
        </p>
    
    <p>
        Ironic's upstream documentation for cleaning may be found here:  
        <xref href="http://docs.openstack.org/developer/ironic/deploy/cleaning.html" scope="external" format="html"/>
        
    </p>

    <section>
        <title>Setup</title>
    
        <p>Cleaning is enabled by default in ironic when installed via the Lifecycle Manager. You can verify this 
        by examining the ironic-conductor.conf file. Look for:
        </p>
    
<codeblock>
[conductor]
clean_nodes=true      
</codeblock>  

        <!--<p>If it is not enabled, you will need to reconfigure ironic with cleaning_network: guest-network under 
            configuration-data:data: in ironic_config.yml in the entry-scale-ironic-flat-networks model. This will 
            also create a cleaning network using neutron. See 
            <xref href="http://docs.openstack.org/developer/ironic/deploy/cleaning.html#cleaning-network" scope="external" format="html"/> and 
            <xref href="http://docs.openstack.org/developer/ironic/deploy/install-guide.html#cleaningnetworksetup" scope="external" format="html"/> 
            for more information on the cleaning network.
        </p>-->
    </section>



    <section>
        <title>In use</title>

        <p>When enabled, cleaning will be run automatically when nodes go from active to available state or 
            from manageable to available. To monitor what step of cleaning the node is in, run:
        </p>
 
<codeblock>
ironic node-show
</codeblock> 

        <p>    
            The status will be in the driver_internal_info field. You will also be able to see the 
            <codeph>clean_steps</codeph> list there.
        </p>
        
<!--        <p>To force cleaning, create a file with contents as follows:</p>        
        
<codeblock>
{
"target":"clean",
"clean_steps": [{
"interface": "deploy",
"step": "erase_devices"
}]
}
</codeblock>   
        
        <p>(You can of course add additional clean steps and their arguments.)</p>   
        
        <p>Then run:</p>
        
<codeblock>
ironic -\-ironic-api-version 1.15 node-set-provision-state &lt;node id> clean -\-clean-steps &lt;file> 
</codeblock>-->

    </section>
    
    <section>
        <title>Troubleshooting</title>
  
    
    <p>If an error occurs during the cleaning process, the node will enter the clean failed state so that 
        it is not deployed. The node remains powered on for debugging purposes. The node can be moved to 
        the manageable state to attempt a fix using the following command:
    </p>
        
<codeblock>
ironic node-set-provision-state &lt;node id> manage
</codeblock>   
        
        <p>
        Once you have identified and fixed the issue, you can return the node to available state by executing the following commands:
        </p>
        
<codeblock>        
ironic node-set-maintenance &lt;node id> false
ironic node-set-provision-state &lt;node id> provide
</codeblock> 
        
        <p>This will retry the cleaning steps and set the node to available state upon their successful completion.</p>
                
  
    </section>
        
        
        <section>
            <title>Disabling Node Cleaning</title>
            
            <p>To diable node cleaning, you need to edit <codeph>helion/my_cloud/definition/data/ironic/ironic_config.yml</codeph> and set 
                <codeph>enable_node_cleaning</codeph> to false.
            
            </p>
            
            <p>Commit your changes:</p>
            
<codeblock>
cd ~/helion/hos/ansible
git add -A 
git commit -m "disable node cleaning" 
</codeblock>        
            
            <p>Deploy these changes by re-running the configuration processor and reconfigure the ironic installation:
     
            </p>
            
<codeblock>
cd ~/helion/hos/ansible
ansible-playbook -i hosts/localhost config-processor-run.yml 
ansible-playbook -i hosts/localhost ready-deployment.yml 
cd ~/scratch/ansible/next/hos/ansible 
ansible-playbook -i hosts/verb_hosts ironic-reconfigure.yml
</codeblock>            
            
        </section>
        
<!--    <section>
        <title>Future work</title>
        
        <p>Manual cleaning refers to the ability to initiate cleaning steps less frequently than every time 
            a node is redeployed. Examples of this type of task include firmware updates, setting up new 
            RAID levels, or other long-running or destructive tasks. This feature is not in the liberty 
            release, but will be available in a future release. For more details, see the specification here:
            <xref href=" https://specs.openstack.org/openstack/ironic-specs/specs/not-implemented/manual-cleaning.html" scope="external" format="html"/>
        </p>
     
                
    </section>-->
    </body>
    
</topic>

            
