<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="twosystems">
    <title><ph conkeyref="HOS-conrefs/product-title"/>Considerations When Installing Two Systems on One Subnet</title>
    <body><!--not tested-->
        <p conkeyref="HOS-conrefs/applies-to"/>
        



    <p>If you wish to install two separate <ph conkeyref="HOS-conrefs/product-title"/> systems
        using a single subnet, you will need to consider the following notes.</p>
    <p>The <codeph>ip_cluster</codeph> service includes the <codeph>keepalived</codeph> daemon
        which maintains virtual IPs (VIPs) on cluster nodes. In order to maintain VIPs, it
        communicates between cluster nodes over the VRRP protocol.</p>
    <p>A VRRP virtual routerid identifies a particular VRRP cluster and must be unique for a
        subnet. If you have two VRRP clusters with the same virtual routerid, causing a clash of
        VRRP traffic, the VIPs are unlikely to be up or pingable and you are likely to get the
        following signature in your <codeph>/etc/keepalived/keepalived.log</codeph>:</p>
        <codeblock>Dec 16 15:43:43 helion-cp1-c1-m1-mgmt Keepalived_vrrp[2218]: ip address associated with VRID not present in received packet : 10.2.1.11
Dec 16 15:43:43 helion-cp1-c1-m1-mgmt Keepalived_vrrp[2218]: one or more VIP associated with VRID mismatch actual MASTER advert
Dec 16 15:43:43 helion-cp1-c1-m1-mgmt Keepalived_vrrp[2218]: bogus VRRP packet received on br-bond0 !!!
Dec 16 15:43:43 helion-cp1-c1-m1-mgmt Keepalived_vrrp[2218]: VRRP_Instance(VI_2) ignoring received advertisment...</codeblock>
    <p>To resolve this issue, our recommendation is to install your separate <ph
        conkeyref="HOS-conrefs/product-title"/> systems with VRRP traffic on different
        subnets.</p>
    <p>If this is not possible, you may also assign a unique routerid to your separate <ph
        conkeyref="HOS-conrefs/product-title"/> system by changing the
        <codeph>keepalived_vrrp_offset</codeph> service configurable. The routerid is currently
        derived using the <codeph>keepalived_vrrp_index</codeph> which comes from a configuration
        processor variable and the <codeph>keepalived_vrrp_offset</codeph>.</p>
    <p>For example, </p>
    <ol>
        <li>Log in to your lifecycle manager.</li>
        <li>Edit your <codeph>~/helion/my_cloud/config/keepalived/defaults.yml</codeph> file and
            change the value of the following line: <codeblock>keepalived_vrrp_offset: 0</codeblock>
            <p>Change the off value to a number that uniquely identifies a separate vrrp cluster. For
                example:</p>
            <p><codeph>keepalived_vrrp_offset: 0</codeph> for the 1st vrrp cluster on this subnet.</p>
            <p><codeph>keepalived_vrrp_offset: 1</codeph> for the 2nd vrrp cluster on this subnet.</p>
            <p><codeph>keepalived_vrrp_offset: 2</codeph> for the 3rd vrrp cluster on this
                subnet.</p></li>
        <li>Commit your configuration to the <xref href="../../installation/using_git.dita">local git
            repo</xref>, as follows:
            <codeblock>cd ~/helion/hos/ansible
git add -A
git commit -m "changing Admin password"</codeblock></li>
        <li>Run the configuration processor with this command:
            <codeblock>cd ~/helion/hos/ansible
ansible-playbook -i hosts/localhost config-processor-run.yml</codeblock></li>
        <li>Use the playbook below to create a deployment directory:
            <codeblock>cd ~/helion/hos/ansible
ansible-playbook -i hosts/localhost ready-deployment.yml</codeblock></li>
        <li>If you are making this change after your initial install, run the following reconfigure
            playbook to make this change in your environment:
            <codeblock>cd ~/scratch/ansible/next/hos/ansible/
ansible-playbook -i hosts/verb_hosts FND-CLU-reconfigure.yml</codeblock>
        </li>
    </ol>

    </body>
</topic>


