<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="upgrade_overview">
    <title><ph conkeyref="HOS-conrefs/product-title"/>Introduction to the Upgrade Procedure</title>
    <body><!--not tested-->
        <p conkeyref="HOS-conrefs/applies-to"/>
        
        
        <section id="overview">
            <title>Overview</title>
            
            
            
        </section>        
        
        
        
        <section id="overview">
            <title>Before You Start</title>
            
        </section>
        
        <section id="addresses_ranges">
            <title><codeph>start-address</codeph> and <codeph>end-address</codeph> Deprecated in the Input Model (DOCS-2927)</title>
            
            <p>                        
                <xref keyref="configobj_networks/start_address">start-address</xref>  and   
                <xref keyref="configobj_networks/end_address">end-address</xref> have been deprecated in
                favour of <xref keyref="configobj_networks/addresses">addresses</xref> in the Input Model.
                The latter provides more flexibility in specifying ranges and so is the preferred method to use.               
            </p>
            
            <p>An example showing how to use the <codeph>addresses</codeph> parameter is available <xref keyref="configobj_networks/example_addresses">here</xref>.</p>
            
            <p>You do not have to update your Input Model to start using <codeph>addresses</codeph>. However, you may see
            warnings like the following when you run the configuration processor:
            </p>
<codeblock>
"#   networks-2.0  WRN: Network EXTERNAL-API-NET: start-address and end-address are deprecated.  Instead specify an address range in 'addresses'",
"#   networks-2.0  WRN: Network GUEST-NET: start-address and end-address are deprecated.  Instead specify an address range in 'addresses'",
"#   networks-2.0  WRN: Network MANAGEMENT-NET: start-address and end-address are deprecated.  Instead specify an address range in 'addresses'",
</codeblock>            
            
        </section>    
        
      
        
        
        
        <section id="git_merge">
            <title>Resolving Git Merge Conflicts During Upgrade (DOCS-2891)</title>
            
        </section>    
        
        
        <section id="post_ipgrade">
            <title>Post-Upgrade Tasks</title>
            
        </section>             
        
        <section id="DOCS-2959">
            <title>Nova Resize and Nova Migrate Features may be Disabled after Upgrade</title>
            
            <p>If you had enabled the Nova Resize or the Nova Migrate feature in your <keyword keyref="kw-hos-phrase-21"/> cloud,
            the features may be disabled after you perform the upgrade procedure. You can re-enable these
            features by following the steps <xref keyref="enabling_resize">here</xref>.
            </p>
        </section>
 
        <section id="DOCS-2944">
            <title>Delete Alarms that are no longer supported</title>
            
            <p>A number of alarms that were supported in <keyword keyref="kw-hos-phrase-21"/> 
                have been removed in <keyword keyref="kw-hos-phrase-21"/>. After a successful upgrade, these
                alarms will be in the UNDETERMINED state. You can delete the obsolete alarms
                by following the appropriate procedure on the <xref keyref="alarm_resolutions">Alarm Resolutions</xref> page.
                </p>
            
            <p>
                For example, the alarms for <codeph>ceilometer-agent-central</codeph> and <codeph>ceilometer-collector</codeph> components 
                can be deleted manually using the <codeph>monasca alarm-delete &lt;alarm-id></codeph> command.                
            </p>
        </section>
            
        
    </body>
</topic>
