<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="horizon_access">
  <title><ph conkeyref="HOS-conrefs/product-title"/>Accessing the Dashboard</title>
  <abstract><shortdesc outputclass="hdphidden">The Horizon dashboard provides cloud admins a web GUI
      to perform domain admin tasks such as user and project administration.</shortdesc>The Horizon
    dashboard provides cloud admins a web GUI to perform domain admin tasks such as user and project
    administration.</abstract>
  <body>
    <!--not tested-->
    <p conkeyref="HOS-conrefs/applies-to"/>
    <note type="warning">The dashboard in <keyword keyref="kw-hos-phrase"/> is pre-configured to
      support only the v3 Keystone API. If you upgrade from an earlier version you will be
      automatically be migrated to the Keystone v3 API. If you still want to use the Keystone v2
      API, you will be limited to API/CLI use only as there is no dashboard support for the Keystone
      v2 API.</note>

    <section id="horizon"><title>Accessing the dashboard</title>
      <p>Prior to accessing the dashboard you will need to retrieve your admin user password. For
        more details, see <xref href="retrieve_adminpassword.dita"/>.</p>
      <p>If your administrator set a hostname value for <codeph>external_name</codeph> in your
          <codeph>network_groups.yml</codeph> file during the configuration process for your cloud
        then Horizon will be accessed over port 443 (https) on that hostname.</p>
      <p>If your administrator did not set a hostname value then in order to determine which IP
        address to use to access Horizon you can use this command from your lifecycle manager
        node:</p>
      <codeblock>grep vip-HZN-WEB /etc/hosts</codeblock>
      <p>The output of that command will show you the virtual IP address for Horizon that you should
        use.</p>
      <p>The default username for the Administrator user is <codeph>admin</codeph>. You will use
        that along with the password you retrieved earlier.</p>
    </section>
  </body>
</topic>
