<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="add_network_node">
  <title><ph conkeyref="HOS-conrefs/product-title"/>Adding a Network Node</title>
  <body>
    <p conkeyref="HOS-conrefs/applies-to"/>
    <section id="about">
      <p>You may have a need to add a network node for additional virtual machine capacity or
        another purpose and these steps will help you achieve this.</p>
      <p>The steps involved are:</p>
      <ol>
        <li>Meeting prerequisites</li>
        <li>Adding the network node</li>
        <li>Adding the new network node to monitoring</li>
      </ol> 
    </section>


    <section id="prereqs"><title outputclass="header">Prerequisites</title>
      <sectiondiv outputclass="inside">
        <p>You should have one or more baremetal servers that meet the minimum hardware requirements
          for a network node which are documented in the <xref href="../hardware.dita">Hardware
            Support Matrix</xref>.</p>
      </sectiondiv></section>

    <section id="steps"><title outputclass="header">Adding a network node</title>
      <sectiondiv outputclass="inside">
        <p>These steps will show you how to add the new network node to your
            <codeph>servers.yml</codeph> file and then run the playbooks that update your cloud
          configuration. You will run these playbooks from the lifecycle manager.</p>
        <ol>
          <li>Log in to your lifecycle manager.</li>
          <li>Checkout the <codeph>site</codeph> branch of your local git so you can begin to make
            the necessary edits:
            <codeblock>cd ~/helion/my_cloud/definition/data
git checkout site</codeblock></li>
          <li>In the same directory, edit your <codeph>servers.yml</codeph> file to include the
            details about your new network node(s). <p>For example, if you already had a cluster of
              three network nodes and needed to add a fourth one you would add your details to the
              bottom of the file in this format:</p>
            <codeblock># network nodes
- id: neut3
  ip-addr: 10.13.111.137
  role: NEUTRON-ROLE
  server-group: RACK2
  mac-addr: "5c:b9:01:89:b6:18"
  nic-mapping: HP-DL360-6PORT
  ip-addr: 10.243.140.22
  ilo-ip: 10.1.12.91
  ilo-password: password
  ilo-user: admin</codeblock>
            <p>You can find detailed descriptions of these fields <xref
                href="../input_model.dita#input_model/co_servers">here</xref>.</p>
            <note type="important">You will need to verify that the <codeph>ip-addr</codeph> value
              you choose for this node does not conflict with any other IP address in your cloud
              environment. You can confirm this by checking the
                <codeph>~/helion/my_cloud/info/address_info.yml</codeph> file on your lifecycle
              manager.</note>
          </li>
          <li>In your <codeph>control_plane.yml</codeph> file you will need to check the values for
              <codeph>member-count</codeph>, <codeph>min-count</codeph>, and
              <codeph>max-count</codeph>, if you specified them, to ensure that they match up with
            your new total node count. So for example, if you had previously specified
              <codeph>member-count: 3</codeph> and are adding a fourth network node, you will need
            to change that value to <codeph>member-count: 4</codeph>. <p>See <xref
                href="../input_model.dita#input_model/co_controlplane">Input Model - Control
                Plane</xref> for more details.</p></li>
          <li>Commit the changes to git:
            <codeblock>git commit -a -m "Add node &lt;name>"</codeblock></li>
          <li>Run the configuration processor:
            <codeblock>cd ~/helion/hos/ansible
ansible-playbook -i hosts/localhost config-processor-run.yml</codeblock></li>
          <li>Run the ready deployment playbook:
            <codeblock>cd ~/helion/hos/ansible
ansible-playbook -i hosts/localhost ready-deployment.yml</codeblock>
          </li>
          <li>Add the new node into Cobbler:
            <codeblock>cd ~/helion/hos/ansible
ansible-playbook -i hosts/localhost cobbler-deploy.yml</codeblock></li>
          <li>Then you can image the node: <codeblock>cd ~/helion/hos/ansible
ansible-playbook -i hosts/localhost bm-reimage.yml -e nodelist=&#60;hostname></codeblock>
            <note>If you don't know the <codeph>&lt;hostname></codeph> already, you can get it by
              using <codeph>sudo cobbler system list</codeph></note>
            <p>Before proceeding, you may want to take a look at <b>info/server_info.yml</b> to see
              if the assignment of the node you have added is what you expect. It may not be, as
              nodes will not be numbered consecutively if any have previously been removed. This is
              to prevent loss of data; the config processor retains data about removed nodes and
              keeps their ID numbers from being reallocated. See the Persisted Server Allocations
              section in <xref href="../input_model.dita#input_model/persistedserverallocations">HPE
                Helion OpenStack 2.0 Input Model</xref> for information on how this works.</p></li>
          <li>Run the following command:
            <codeblock>cd ~/scratch/ansible/next/hos/ansible
ansible-playbook -i hosts/verb_hosts osconfig-run.yml --limit &lt;hostname></codeblock></li>
          <li>Run this command to complete the deployment of your new node, ensuring you use the
              <codeph>--limit</codeph> option to specify your new node:
            <codeblock>cd ~/scratch/ansible/next/hos/ansible
ansible-playbook -i hosts/verb_hosts hlm-deploy.yml --limit &#60;hostname></codeblock></li>
          <li>Next run <codeph>verb_hosts site.yml</codeph> so that all other services become aware
            of the new
            node:<codeblock>ansible-playbook -i hosts/verb_hosts site.yml --tags "generate_hosts_file"</codeblock></li>
        </ol>
      </sectiondiv>
    </section>
    <section id="monitoring"><title outputclass="headerH">Adding a New Network Node to
        Monitoring</title>
      <sectiondiv outputclass="insideSection">
        <p>If you want to add a new Network node to the monitoring service checks, there is an
          additional playbook that must be run to ensure this happens:</p>
        <codeblock>cd ~/scratch/ansible/next/hos/ansible
ansible-playbook -i hosts/verb_hosts monasca-deploy.yml --tags active_ping_checks</codeblock>
      </sectiondiv>
    </section>
  </body>
</topic>
