<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--Edit status: not edited-->
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topic_overview_audit_logs">
  <title><ph conkeyref="HOS-conrefs/product-title"/>Audit Logging Overview</title>
  <body><!--not tested-->
    <p conkeyref="HOS-conrefs/applies-to"/>
    <p>Existing OpenStack service logging varies widely across services. Generally, log messages do not have enough detail about who is requesting the application program interface (API), or enough context-specific details about an action performed. Often details are not even consistently logged across various services, leading to inconsistent data formats being used across services. These issues make it difficult to integrate logging with existing audit tools and processes.</p>
<p>To help you monitor your workload and data in compliance with your corporate, industry or
      regional policies, HPE Helion OpenStack provides auditing support as a basic security feature.
      The audit logging can be integrated with customer Security Information and Event Management
      (SIEM) tools and support your efforts to correlate threat forensics. </p>
<p>The HPE Helion OpenStack audit logging feature uses Audit Middleware for Python services. This
      middleware service is based on OpenStack services which use the Paste Deploy system. Most
      OpenStack services use the paste deploy mechanism to find and configure WSGI servers and
      applications. Utilizing the paste deploy system provides auditing support in services with
      minimal changes.</p>
    <p>By default, audit logging as a post-installation feature is disabled in the cloudConfig file
      on the lifecycle manager and it can only be enabled after HPE Helion OpenStack installation or
      upgrade.</p>

      <p>The tasks in this section explain how to enable services for audit logging in your
      environment. HPE Helion OpenStack provides audit logging for the following services:</p>
  <ul>
    <li>Nova</li>
    <li>Barbican</li>
    <li>Keystone</li>
    <li>Cinder</li>
    <li>Ceilometer</li>
    <li>Neutron</li>
    <li>Glance</li>
    <li>Heat</li>
  </ul>

<p>Before enabling audit logging, make sure you have completed everything on the prerequisite
      checklist.</p>

<p>To enable audit logging: <ol>
        <li><xref href="audit_logs_checklist.dita#audit_log_checklist">Complete the prerequisite
            checklist</xref></li>
        <li><xref href="audit_logs_enable.dita#topic_enable_audit_logs">Configure audit
            logging</xref></li>
      </ol>For audit log backup information see <xref
        href="audit_logs_backup.dita#backup_audit_logs">Backing up and Restoring Audit Logs</xref>
    </p>
  </body>
</topic>
