<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd" >
<topic xml:lang="en-us" id="central_log_GS">
  <title><ph conkeyref="HOS-conrefs/product-title"/>Getting Started with Centralized Logging Service</title>
  <body>
    <p>A typical cloud consists of multiple servers which makes locating
      a specific log from a single server difficult. The Centralized
      Logging feature helps the administrator evaluate and troubleshoot the distributed cloud
      deployment from a single location.</p>

    <p><b>Understanding the Centralized Logging Feature</b></p>
    <p>The Centralized Logging feature collects logs on a central system, rather than leaving the
      logs scattered across the network. The administrator can use a single Kibana interface to view
      log information in charts, graphs, tables, histograms, and other forms.</p>
    <ul>
      <li><xref href="central_log_understanding.dita#central_log_concepts/components">What Components are Part of
        Logging?</xref></li>
      <li><xref href="central_log_understanding.dita#central_log_concepts/types">What Data is Collected by Helion?</xref></li>
      <li><xref href="central_log_understanding.dita#central_log_concepts/retaining_logs">How Long are Log Files
        Retained?</xref></li>
      <li><xref href="central_log_understanding.dita#central_log_concepts/rotating_logs">How are Logs Rotated?</xref></li>
      <li><xref href="central_log_understanding.dita#central_log_concepts/BUElasticsearch">Are Log Files Backed-Up To Elasticsearch?</xref></li>
      <li><xref href="#central_log_GS/info">Where Can I Find More Information?</xref></li>
    </ul>

    <p><b>Managing the Centralized Logging Feature</b></p>
    
    <p>The Centralized Logging feature is automatically installed as part of Helion installation.
      The base logging levels will be set during installation according to the amount of RAM
      allocated to your control plane nodes to ensure optimum performance.</p>
    <p>No specific configuration is required to use Centralized Logging. However, you can
      configure the individual components as needed for your environment. This topic provides
      information on how to configure the following settings:</p>
    <dl>
      <dlentry>
        <dt><xref href="central_log_configure_manage.dita">Running the Centralized Logging Service</xref></dt>
        <dd>
          <ul>
            <li>How Do I Stop and Start the Service?</li>
            <li>Can I Disable and Enable Centralized Logging for a Service?</li>
          </ul>
        </dd>
      </dlentry>
      <dlentry>
        <dt><xref href="central_log_configure_CL.dita">Settings for Centralized Logging</xref></dt>
        <dd>
          <ul>
            <li>Where Can I Find the Configuration Files?</li>
            <li>How Do I Set Disk Space Requirements?</li>
            <li>How Do I Back-Up Log Files to Elasticsearch?</li>
          </ul>
        </dd>
      </dlentry>
      <dlentry>
        <dt><xref href="central_log_configure_services.dita"/></dt>
        <dd>
          <ul>
            <li>How Do I Set Logging Levels for a Service?</li>
            <li>How Do I Change the Length of Time Service Log Files Are Retained?</li>
            <li>How Do I Configure Kibana for Centralized Logging?</li>
            <li>How Do I Configure Elasticsearch for Centralized Logging?</li>
          </ul>
        </dd>
      </dlentry>
    </dl>
   
      <p><b>Troubleshooting the Centralized Logging Feature</b></p>
      <ul>
      <li><xref href="central_log_troubleshoot.dita"/></li>
    </ul>  
    
    <section id="info">
      <title>Where Can I Find More Information?</title>
      <p>For information the centralized logging components, see the following sites:</p>
      <ul>
        <li><xref href="https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/logstash/current/introduction.html"
          format="html" scope="external">Logstash</xref></li>
        <li><xref href="http://www.elasticsearch.org/guide" scope="external" format="html"
          >Elasticsearch</xref></li>
        <li><xref href="http://www.elasticsearch.org/blog/scripting-security" scope="external"
          format="html">Elasticsearch Scripting and Security</xref></li>
        <li><xref href="https://media.readthedocs.org/pdf/beaver/latest/beaver.pdf" format="pdf"
          scope="external">Beaver</xref></li>
        <li><xref href="http://www.rabbitmq.com/" scope="external" format="html"
          >RabbitMQ</xref></li>
        <li><xref href="http://www.elasticsearch.org/guide/en/kibana/current/index.html"
          scope="external" format="html">Kibana Dashboard</xref></li>
        <li><xref href="http://kafka.apache.org/" scope="external" format="html">Apache Kafka</xref></li>
      </ul>
    </section>
  </body>
</topic>
