<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd" >
<topic xml:lang="en-us" id="central_log_configure_services">
  <title>Settings for Other Services</title>
  <body>
    <!--not tested-->
    <section id="Clog_config_services">
      
      <p>Text</p>
      <ul>
        <li><xref href="#central_log_configure_services/CL_log_level_srv">How Do I Set Logging Levels for Services?</xref></li>
        <li><xref href="#central_log_configure_services/CL_config_log_rotate">How Do I Change the Length of Time Log Files Are Retained?</xref></li>
        <li><xref href="#central_log_configure_services/CL_kibana_config">How Do I Configure Kibana for Centralized Logging?</xref></li>
        <li><xref href="#central_log_configure_services/CL_elasticsearch_config">How Do I Configure Elasticsearch for Centralized Logging?</xref></li>
      </ul>
    </section>
<lines>
  
</lines>
    <section id="CL_log_level_srv">
      <title>How Do I Set Logging Levels For Services?</title>
      <p>Text</p>
    </section>
<lines>
  
</lines>
    <section id="CL_config_log_rotate">
      <title>How Do I Change the Length of Time Log Files Are Retained?</title>
      <p>As you use each service, you might need change the default configuration settings such as: <ul>
        <li>which files are rotated</li>
        <li>how often they are rotated</li>
        <li>how large they can grow before being rotated</li>
      </ul> Helion Openstack uses the cron process which in turn calls <codeph>logrotate</codeph>
        to provide rotation, compression, and removal of log files. Each log file can be checked
        hourly, daily, weekly, or monthly. If no rotation period is set then the log file will only
        be rotated when it grows too large.</p>
      <p>You can find the configuration files for each service in the following directory:
        <codeblock>.../logging-ansible/logging-common/vars/*</codeblock> Only files that have
        centralized logging enabled are copied to Elasticsearch.</p>
      <p>All of the variables for the logrotate process are found in the following file:
        <codeblock>../logging-ansible/logging-common/defaults/main.yml          
</codeblock></p>
      <p>All of the variables for logging are found in the following file:
        <codeblock>.../logging-ansible/logging-common/defaults/main.yml</codeblock>
      </p>
      <p><b>To change log rotation settings:</b></p>
    </section>
  <lines>
    
  </lines>  
    <section id="CL_kibana_config">
      <title>How Do I Configure Kibana for Centralized Logging?</title>
      <p>You can use the Kibana dashboards to view log data. Kibana is a tool developed to create
        charts, graphs, tables, and histograms based on logs send to Elasticsearch by logstash.</p>
      <p>While creating Kibana dashboards is beyond the scope of this document, it is important to
        know that you can use the default Kibana dashboards or create custom dashboards. The
        dashboards are JSON files that you can modify or create new dashboards based on existing
        dashboards.</p>
      <note>Kibana is client-side software. To operate properly, the browser must be able to access
        port 5601 on the control plane.</note>
      <p>The access information for Kibana is defined in the
          <codeph>~/helion/my_cloud/config/logging/main.yml</codeph> file and implemented in the
        Kibana configuration file
          <codeph>~/helion/my_cloud/config/logging/kibana-apache2.conf.j2</codeph>.</p>
      <table frame="all" rowsep="1" colsep="1" id="table_spl_rg5_st">
        <tgroup cols="3">
          <colspec colname="c1" colnum="1"/>
          <colspec colname="c2" colnum="2"/>
          <colspec colname="c3" colnum="3"/>
          <thead>
            <row>
              <entry>Ansible Variable</entry>
              <entry>Default Value</entry>
              <entry>Description</entry>
            </row>
          </thead>
          <tbody>
            <row>
              <entry>kibana_user</entry>
              <entry>kibana</entry>
              <entry>Username that will be required for logging into the Kibana UI.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>kibana_pass</entry>
              <entry>random password is generated</entry>
              <entry>Password generated during installation that is used to login to the Kibana
                UI.</entry>
            </row>
          </tbody>
        </tgroup>
      </table>
      <p><b>Logging into Kibana</b></p>
      <p>To log into Kibana to view data, you must either access Kibana through Operations Console
        or using a direct link. Then make sure you have the correct login credentials.</p>
      <p><b>To log into Kibana:</b></p>
      <ol>
        <li>Access Kibana using the Operations Console or through a direct link.</li>
        <li>Verify login credentials.</li>
      </ol>
      <p><b>To use Operations Console:</b></p>
      <ol>
        <li>Access <xref href="monitoring_service.dita#monitoring/working" type="section">Operations
            Console</xref>.</li>
        <li>From the menu, choose <b>Logging Dashboard</b>.</li>
      </ol>
      <p><b>To use a direct link:</b></p>
      <p>This section helps you verify the Horizon virtual IP (VIP) address for Kibana that you
        should use.</p>
      <ol>
        <li>Navigate to and open in a text editor the following file:
          <codeblock>network_groups.yml</codeblock>
        </li>
        <li>Find the following entry: <codeblock><codeph>external-name</codeph></codeblock></li>
        <li>If your administrator set a hostname value in the <b>external-name</b> field during the
          configuration process for your cloud, then Kibana will be accessed over port 5601 on that
          hostname.</li>
        <li>If your administrator did not set a hostname value, then to determine which IP address
          to use, from your lifecycle manager, run: <codeblock>grep vip-HZN-WEB /etc/hosts</codeblock>
          <p>The output of that command will show you the virtual IP address for Kibana that you
            should use. Access to Kibana will be over port 5601 of that virtual IP address.
            Example:</p>
          <codeblock>http://&lt;VIP&gt;:5601</codeblock>
        </li>
      </ol>
      <p><b>Login Credentials</b></p>
      <p>During the installation of Kibana, a password is automatically set and it is randomized.
        Therefore, unless an administrator has already changed it, you need to retreive the default
        password from a file on the control plane node.</p>
      <p>The default settings for Kibana are:</p>
      <dl>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>username</dt>
          <dd>kibana</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>password</dt>
          <dd>(randomized)</dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl>
      <p><b>To find the randomized password:</b></p>
      <ol>
        <li>On your lifecycle manager, navigate to the following directory:
          <codeblock>~/scratch/ansible/next/hos/ansible/group_vars/</codeblock>
        </li>
        <li>To GREP for the <codeph>logging_kibana_password</codeph>, run:
          <codeblock>grep logging_kibana_password &lt;name-of-control-plane&gt;</codeblock>
        </li>
      </ol>
      <note type="note">For example, if you are using the Entry-scale KVM with VSA model and you
        kept the default naming scheme in the example files then your command would look similar to
        this:
        <codeblock>grep logging_kibana_password entry-scale-kvm-vsa-control-plane-1</codeblock>
      </note>
    </section>

    <lines>
      
    </lines> 

    <section id="CL_elasticsearch_config">
      <title>How Do I Configure Elasticsearch for Centralized Logging?</title>
      <p>Elasticsearch includes some tunable options exposed in its configuration. Helion uses these
        options in Elasticsearch to prioritize indexing speed over search speed. Helion also
        configures Elasticsearch for optimal performance in low RAM environments. The options that
        Helion modifies are listed below along with an explanation about why they were modified.</p>
      <p>These configurations are defined in the
          <codeph>~/helion/my_cloud/config/logging/main.yml</codeph> file and are implemented in the
        Elasticsearch configuration file
          <codeph>~/helion/my_cloud/config/logging/elasticsearch.yml.j2</codeph>.</p>
      <table frame="all" rowsep="1" colsep="1" id="table_qsd_3h5_st">
        <tgroup cols="5">
          <colspec colname="c1" colnum="1"/>
          <colspec colname="c2" colnum="2"/>
          <colspec colname="c3" colnum="3"/>
          <colspec colname="c4" colnum="4"/>
          <colspec colname="c5" colnum="5"/>
          <thead>
            <row>
              <entry>Ansible Variable</entry>
              <entry>Configuration Parameter</entry>
              <entry>Default Value</entry>
              <entry>Elasticsearch Default Value</entry>
              <entry>Comments</entry>
            </row>
          </thead>
          <tbody>
            <row>
              <entry>elasticsearch_cluster_name</entry>
              <entry>cluster name</entry>
              <entry>elasticsearch</entry>
              <entry>elasticsearch</entry>
              <entry>Name of the Elasticsearch cluster. This variable cannot be changed after the
                initial deployment. Doing so will reset all Elasticsearch indices.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>elasticsearch_indices_fielddata_cache_size</entry>
              <entry>indices.fielddata.cache.size</entry>
              <entry>15%</entry>
              <entry>unbounded</entry>
              <entry>By default, this setting is <b>unbounded</b>—Elasticsearch will never evict
                data from fielddata, which is less than ideal when trying to conserve on memory
                usage.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>elasticsearch_indices_breaker_fielddata_limit</entry>
              <entry>indices.breaker.fielddata.limit</entry>
              <entry>25%</entry>
              <entry>60%</entry>
              <entry>The field data circuit breaker enables Elasticsearch to estimate the amount of
                memory a field will require to be loaded into memory. This value must be greater
                than <b>cache.size</b> to evict data properly.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>elasticsearch_indices_ttl_bulk_size</entry>
              <entry>indices.ttl.bulk_size</entry>
              <entry>100000</entry>
              <entry>10000</entry>
              <entry>The number of expired docs to delete at once.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>elasticsearch_indices_cache_filter_size</entry>
              <entry>indices.cache.filter.expire</entry>
              <entry>6h</entry>
              <entry>-1</entry>
              <entry>By default, this setting is -1 (i.e., never expires).</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>elasticsearch_indices_memory_index_buffer_size</entry>
              <entry>indices.memory.index_buffer_size</entry>
              <entry>50%</entry>
              <entry>10%</entry>
              <entry>Slanting performance in favor of heavier indexing usage over search
                usage.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>elasticsearch_indices_memory_min_index_buffer_size</entry>
              <entry>indices.memory.min_index_buffer_size</entry>
              <entry>200 MB</entry>
              <entry>48 MB</entry>
              <entry>Slanting performance in favor of heavier indexing usage over search
                usage.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>elasticsearch_indices_memory_min_shard_index_buffer_size</entry>
              <entry>indices.memory.min_shard_index_buffer_size</entry>
              <entry>12 MB</entry>
              <entry>4 MB</entry>
              <entry>Slanting performance in favor of heavier indexing usage over search
                usage.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>elasticsearch_indices_store_throttle_type</entry>
              <entry>indices.store.throttle.type</entry>
              <entry>merge</entry>
              <entry>merge</entry>
              <entry>Configures store module throttle for merges.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>elasticsearch_indices_store_throttle_max_bytes_per_sec</entry>
              <entry>indices.store.throttle.max_bytes_per_sec</entry>
              <entry>80 MB</entry>
              <entry>20 MB</entry>
              <entry>Slanting performance in favor of heavier indexing usage over search
                usage.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>elasticsearch_index_refresh_interval</entry>
              <entry>index.refresh_interval</entry>
              <entry>30s</entry>
              <entry>1s</entry>
              <entry>Increasing refresh interval reduces overhead.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>elasticsearch_index_merge_scheduler_max_thread_count</entry>
              <entry>index.merge.scheduler.max_thread_count</entry>
              <entry>1</entry>
              <entry>cores/2</entry>
              <entry>Elasticsearch recommends 1 if using spinning disks.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>elasticsearch_index_translog_flush_threashhold_ops</entry>
              <entry>index.translog.flush_threshhold_ops</entry>
              <entry>150000</entry>
              <entry>unlimited</entry>
              <entry>Each shard has a transaction log or write ahead log associated with it. This
                setting controls when commits occur.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>elasticsearch_index_translog_flush_threashhold_size</entry>
              <entry>index.translog.flush_threshhold_size</entry>
              <entry>1 GB</entry>
              <entry>512 MB</entry>
              <entry>Increasing this setting decreases fsync.</entry>
            </row>
          </tbody>
        </tgroup>
      </table>
    </section>
  </body>
</topic>
