<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topic_blb_j3x_rv">
  <title><ph conkeyref="HOS-conrefs/product-title"/>Getting Started with Operations</title>
  <body><!--not tested-->
    <section><p>This section covers best practices for how to manage and/or troubleshoot your HPE Helion
        OpenStack 3.0 cloud. </p>
      <p><b>What operations should I plan on performing daily, weekly, monthly, or
          semi-annually?</b></p>
      <p>You should plan for operations by understanding what tasks you need to do daily, weekly,
        monthly, or semi-annually. The specific list of tasks that you need to perform depends on
        your cloud configuration, but should include the following high-level tasks:</p></section> 
    <section><title>Daily tasks</title>
      <ul id="ul_mx2_z4x_rv">
        <li><b>Ensure your cloud is running correctly</b>: Helion OpenStack is deployed as a set of
          highly available services to minimize the impact of failures. That said, hardware and
          software systems can fail. Detection of failures early in the process will enable you to
          address issues before they affect the broader system. Helion OpenStack provides a
          monitoring solution, based on OpenStack’s Monasca, which provides monitoring and metrics
          for all OpenStack components and much of the underlying system, including service status,
          performance metrics, compute node, and virtual machine status. Failures are exposed via
          the Operations Console and/or alarm notifications. In the case where more detailed
          diagnostics are required, you can use a centralized logging system based on the
          Elasticsearch, Logstash, and Kibana (ELK) stack. This provides the ability to search
          service logs to get detailed information on behavior and errors.</li>
        <li><b>Perform critical maintenance</b>: To ensure your OpenStack installation is running
          correctly, provides the right access and functionality, and is secure, you must should
          ongoing adjustments to the environment. Examples of some daily maintenance tasks
            include:<ul id="ul_nx2_z4x_rv">
            <li>Add/remove projects and users. The frequency of this task depends on your
              policy.</li>
            <li>Apply security patches (if released).</li>
            <li>Run daily backups.</li>
          </ul></li>
      </ul>
      </section>
    <section><title>Weekly or monthly tasks</title><ul id="ul_nz4_npx_rv">
      <li><b>Do regular capacity planning</b>: Your initial deployment will likely reflect the
        known near to mid-term scale requirements, but at some point your needs will outgrow your
        initial deployment’s capacity. You can expand Helion OpenStack in a variety of ways, such
        as by adding compute and storage capacity. </li>
    </ul>
      <p>To manage your cloud’s capacity, begin by determining the load on the existing system.
        OpenStack is a set of relatively independent components and services, so there are multiple
        subsystems that can affect capacity. These include control plane nodes, compute nodes,
        object storage nodes, block storage nodes, and an image management system. At the most basic
        level, you should look at the CPU used, RAM used, I/O load, and the disk space used relative
        to the amounts available. For compute nodes, you can also evaluate the allocation of
        resource to hosted virtual machines. This information can be viewed in the Operations
        Console. You can pull historical information from the monitoring service (OpenStack’s
        Monasca) by using its client or API. Also, OpenStack provides you some ability to manage the
        hosted resource utilization by using quotas for projects. You can track this usage over time
        to get your growth trend so that you can project when you will need to add capacity.</p></section>
    <section>
      <title>Semi-annual tasks</title>
      <ul id="ul_y1v_5sx_rv">
        <li><b>Perform upgrades</b>: OpenStack releases new versions on a six-month cycle. In
          general, HPE Helion will release a new version shortly after that. Each new release
          consists of both new functionality and/or services, as well as bug fixes for existing
          functionality. </li>
      </ul>
      <note>If you are planning to upgrade, this is also an excellent time to evaluate
        your existing capabilities, especially in terms of capacity (see Capacity Planning
        above).</note>
    </section>
    <section><title>Troubleshooting</title>
      <p>As part of managing your cloud, you should be ready to troubleshoot issues, as needed. The
        following are some common troubleshooting scenarios and solutions:</p>
      <p><b>How do I determine if my cloud is operating correctly now?</b>: Helion OpenStack
        provides a monitoring solution based on OpenStack’s Monasca service. This service provides
        monitoring and metrics for all OpenStack components, as well as much of the underlying
        system. By default, Helion OpenStack comes with a set of alarms that provide coverage of the
        primary systems. In addition, you can define alarms based on threshold values for any
        metrics defined in the system. You can view alarm information in the Operations Console. You
        can also receive or deliver this information to others by configuring email or other
        mechanisms. Alarms provide information about whether a component failed and is affecting the
        system, and also what condition triggered the alarm. </p>
      <p><b>How do I troubleshoot and resolve performance issues for my cloud?</b>: There are a
        variety of factors that can affect the performance of a cloud system, such as the
        following:</p>
      <ul id="ul_vb3_ttx_rv">
        <li>Health of the control plane</li>
        <li>Health of the hosting compute node and virtualization layer</li>
        <li>Resource allocation on the compute node</li>
      </ul>
      <p>If your cloud users are experiencing performance issues on your cloud, use the following
        approach:</p>
      <ol id="ol_wb3_ttx_rv">
        <li>View the compute summary page on the Operations Console to determine if any alarms have
          been triggered. </li>
        <li>Determine the hosting node of the virtual machine that is having issues.</li>
        <li>On the compute hosts page, view the status and resource utilization of the compute node
          to determine if it has errors or is over-allocated.</li>
        <li>On the compute instances page you can view the status of the VM along with its
          metrics.</li>
      </ol>
      <p><b>How do I troubleshoot and resolve availability issues for my cloud?</b>: If your cloud
        users are experiencing availability issues, determine what your users are experiencing that
        indicates to them the cloud is down. For example, can they not access the Dashboard service
        (Horizon) console or APIs, indicating a problem with the control plane? Or are they having
        trouble accessing resources? Console/API issues would indicate a problem with the control
        planes. Use the Operations Console to view the status of services to see if there is an
        issue. However, if it is an issue of accessing a virtual machine, then also search the
        consolidated logs that are available in the ELK stack or errors related to the virtual
        machine and supporting networking.</p>
   </section></body>
</topic>
