<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="stop_restart">
  <title><ph conkeyref="HOS-conrefs/product-title"/>Bringing Down Your Cloud: Services Down
    Method</title>
  <abstract><shortdesc outputclass="hdphidden">If you have a planned maintenance and need to bring
      down your entire cloud follow the steps below to safely do so. Be mindful that this method
      will bring down all of your services.</shortdesc></abstract>
  <body>
    <!--not tested-->
    <p conkeyref="HOS-conrefs/applies-to"/>
    <section id="about">
      <p>If you have a planned maintenance and need to bring down your entire cloud follow the steps
        below to safely do so. Be mindful that this method will bring down all of your services. If
        you wish to use a method utilizing rolling reboots where your cloud services will continue
        running then see <xref href="reboot_cloud_rolling.dita"/>.</p>
      <p>If you wish to do any backups prior to these steps, visit the backup and restore pages
        first at <xref href="../bura/bura_overview.dita"/>.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="steps"><title>Gracefully Bringing Down and Restarting Your Cloud
        Environment</title>
      <p>You will do the following steps from your lifecycle manager.</p>
      <ol>
        <li>Log in to your lifecycle manager.</li>
        <li>Gracefully shut down your <keyword keyref="kw-hos-phrase"/> cloud by running the
            <codeph>hlm-stop.yml</codeph> playbook:
          <codeblock>cd ~/scratch/ansible/next/hos/ansible
ansible-playbook -i hosts/verb_hosts hlm-stop.yml</codeblock></li>
        <li>Shut down/restart or reboot your nodes.</li>
        <li>Log back in to your lifecycle manager.</li>
        <li>Determine the current power status of the nodes in your environment:
          <codeblock>cd ~/scratch/ansible/next/hos/ansible
ansible-playbook -i hosts/verb_hosts bm-power-status.yml</codeblock></li>
        <li>If necessary, power up any nodes that aren't already powered
          up:<codeblock>cd ~/scratch/ansible/next/hos/ansible
ansible-playbook -i hosts/verb_hosts bm-power-up.yml </codeblock></li>
        <li>Bring the databases back up:
          <codeblock>cd ~/scratch/ansible/next/hos/ansible
ansible-playbook -i hosts/verb_hosts percona-bootstrap.yml</codeblock></li>
        <li>Gracefully bring up your <keyword keyref="kw-hos-phrase"/> cloud by running the
            <codeph>hlm-start.yml</codeph>
          playbook:<codeblock>cd ~/scratch/ansible/next/hos/ansible
ansible-playbook -i hosts/verb_hosts hlm-start.yml</codeblock></li>
        <li>Pause for a few minutes and give the cloud environment time to come up completely and
          then verify the status of the individual services using this
          playbook:<codeblock>cd ~/scratch/ansible/next/hos/ansible
ansible-playbook -i hosts/verb_hosts hlm-status.yml</codeblock></li>
        <li>If any services did not start properly, you can run playbooks for the specific services
          having issues. <p>For example:</p>
          <p>If RabbitMQ fails, run:</p>
          <codeblock>cd ~/scratch/ansible/next/hos/ansible
ansible-playbook -i hosts/verb_hosts rabbitmq-start.yml</codeblock>
          <p>You can check the status of RabbitMQ afterwards with this:</p>
          <codeblock>cd ~/scratch/ansible/next/hos/ansible
ansible-playbook -i hosts/verb_hosts rabbitmq-status.yml</codeblock>
          <p>If the recovery had failed, you can run:</p>
          <codeblock>cd ~/scratch/ansible/next/hos/ansible
ansible-playbook -i hosts/verb_hosts rabbitmq-disaster-recovery.yml</codeblock>
          <p>Each of the other services have playbooks in the
              <codeph>~/scratch/ansible/next/hos/ansible</codeph> directory in the format of
              <codeph>&lt;service>-start.yml</codeph> that you can run. One example, for the compute
            service, is <codeph>nova-start.yml</codeph>.</p></li>
        <li>Continue checking the status of your <keyword keyref="kw-hos-phrase"/> cloud services
          until there are no more failed or unreachable nodes:
          <codeblock>cd ~/scratch/ansible/next/hos/ansible
ansible-playbook -i hosts/verb_hosts hlm-status.yml</codeblock></li>
      </ol>
    </section>
  </body>
</topic>
