<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="replacing_disks">
  <title><ph conkeyref="HOS-conrefs/product-title"/>Replacing Drives in a Swift Node</title>
  <abstract><shortdesc outputclass="hdphidden">Maintenance steps for replacing drives in a Swift
      node.</shortdesc>There are two different classes of drives in a Swift node that needs to be
    replaced; the operating system disk drive (generally <b>/dev/sda</b>) and storage disk drives.
    There are different procedures for the replacement of each class of drive to bring the node back
    to normal.</abstract>
  <body>
    <p conkeyref="HOS-conrefs/applies-to"/>
    <section id="expandCollapse">
      <sectiondiv outputclass="expandall">Expand All Sections</sectiondiv>
      <sectiondiv outputclass="collapseall">Collapse All Sections</sectiondiv>
    </section>
    <section>
      <title outputclass="headerH">To Replace the Operating System Disk Drive</title>
      <sectiondiv outputclass="insideSection">
        <p>After the operating system disk drive is replaced, the node must be reimaged.</p>
        <ol>
          <li>Log onto the lifecycle manager.</li>
          <li>Using Ansible, reimage the
              node:<codeblock>cd ~/helion/hos/ansible
ansible-playbook -i hosts/localhost bm-reimage.yml -e nodelist=&lt;server id></codeblock><p>In
              the example below <b>swobj2</b> server is
              reimaged:<codeblock>cd ~/helion/hos/ansible
ansible-playbook -i hosts/localhost bm-reimage.yml -e nodelist=swobj2</codeblock></p></li>
          <li>Review the <codeph>cloudConfig.yml</codeph> and
              <codeph>data/control_plane.yml</codeph> files to get the host prefix (for example,
            helion) and the control plane name (for example, cp1). This gives you the hostname of
            the node. Configure the operating
              system:<codeblock>cd ~/scratch/ansible/next/hos/ansible
ansible-playbook -i hosts/verb_hosts osconfig-run.yml --limit &lt;hostname></codeblock><p>In
              the following example, for <b>swobj2</b>, the hostname is
              <b>helion-cp1-swobj0002</b>:<codeblock>cd ~/scratch/ansible/next/hos/ansible
ansible-playbook -i hosts/verb_hosts osconfig-run.yml -limit helion-cp1-swobj0002*</codeblock></p></li>
          <li>If this is the first server running the swift-proxy service, restore the Swift Ring
            Builder files to the <codeph>/etc/swiftlm/builder_dir</codeph> directory. (For more
            information and instructions, see <xref
              href="../troubleshooting/objectstorage/identify_ring_builder.dita"/>
            <xref href="../troubleshooting/objectstorage/recovering_builder_file.dita"/>.)</li>
          <li>Configure services on the node using the <codeph>site.yml</codeph> playbook. If you
            have used an encryption password when running the configuration processor include the
              <codeph>--ask-vault-pass</codeph>
              argument.<codeblock>ansible-playbook -i hosts/verb_hosts hlm-deploy.yml --ask-vault-pass --limit &lt;hostname></codeblock><p>For
              example:<codeblock>ansible-playbook -i hosts/verb_hosts hlm-deploy.yml --ask-vault-pass --limit helion-cp1-swobj0002*</codeblock></p></li>
        </ol>
      </sectiondiv>
    </section>
    <section>
      <title outputclass="headerH">To Replace a Storage Disk Drive</title>
      <sectiondiv outputclass="insideSection">
        <p>After a storage drive is replaced, there is no need to reimage the server. Instead, run
          the <codeph>swift-reconfigure.yml</codeph> playbook.<ol id="ol_kqj_hkv_pt">
            <li>Log onto the lifecycle manager.</li>
            <li>Run the following
                commands:<codeblock>cd ~/scratch/ansible/next/hos/ansible
ansible-playbook -i hosts/verb_hosts swift-reconfigure.yml --limit &lt;hostname></codeblock><p>In
                following example, the server used is
                <b>swobj2</b>:<codeblock>cd ~/scratch/ansible/next/hos/ansible
ansible-playbook -i hosts/verb_hosts swift-reconfigure.yml --limit helion-cp1-swobj0002-mgmt </codeblock></p></li>
          </ol></p>
      </sectiondiv>
    </section>
  </body>
</topic>
