<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="restart_freezer">
  <title><ph conkeyref="HOS-conrefs/product-title"/>Restarting Freezer Backups after Reboot or
    Crash</title>
  <body>
    <p conkeyref="HOS-conrefs/applies-to"/>
    <section id="restartFreezer">
      <p>Each time the <codeph>freezer-scheduler</codeph> is restarted on a node, which will occur
        any time a node is rebooted, the procedure documented below must be applied to the nodes
        that were rebooted.</p>
      <p>If you do not do these steps for the rebooted nodes then no backups will be taken after the
          <codeph>freezer-scheduler</codeph> is restarted.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="ansible"><title>Create an Ansible Playbook to Clean the Freezer Jobs</title>
      <p>These steps will show you how to create an ansible playbook that you can use to restart the
        backup jobs after a node reboot. This playbook will delete the old backup jobs and create
        fresh ones.</p>
      <ol>
        <li>Log in to the lifecycle manager.</li>
        <li>Change the scratch directory:
          <codeblock>cd ~/scratch/ansible/next/hos/ansible</codeblock></li>
        <li>Create a file named <codeph>_clean_freezer_jobs.yml</codeph> with the contents below:
          <codeblock>
---
- hosts: FRE-AGN
  roles:
    - freezer-jobs
  tasks:
  - name: Clean old job templates
    become: yes
    file:
      path: /etc/freezer/scheduler/to_upload
      state: absent

- include: _freezer_manage_jobs.yml</codeblock></li>
      </ol>
    </section>
    <section id="allnodes"><title>Running the Ansible Playbook to Clean the Freezer Jobs</title>
      <p>These steps will show you how to run the ansible playbook to clean the Freezer jobs.</p>
      <ol>
        <li>Log in to the lifecycle manager.</li>
        <li>Run the playbook. <p>If you want to run the playbook against all of the nodes in your
            environment, such as after an upgrade where all of your nodes are rebooted, use this
            command:</p>
          <codeblock>cd ~/scratch/ansible/next/hos/ansible
ansible-playbook -i hosts/verb_hosts _clean_freezer_jobs.yml</codeblock>
          <p>If you only rebooted specific nodes in your environment, but not all nodes, then you
            can specify a list of hosts like this:</p>
          <codeblock>cd ~/scratch/ansible/next/hos/ansible
ansible-playbook -i hosts/verb_hosts _clean_freezer_jobs.yml --limit &lt;hostname></codeblock>
          <note>You can get a full list of hostnames in your environment by looking in your
              <codeph>/etc/hosts</codeph> file.</note></li>
      </ol>
    </section>
    <section id="moreinfo">
      <p>More information on the upstream bug is available here: <xref
          href="https://bugs.launchpad.net/freezer/+bug/1546269" format="html" scope="external"
          >https://bugs.launchpad.net/freezer/+bug/1546269</xref></p>
    </section>
  </body>
</topic>
